# 20200820 Governance Working Group Call 22

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:00.000 --> 00:00:00.810
Blockstack Meeting: To the class.

2
00:00:00.840 --> 00:00:02.610
Jason Schrader: By the way in and say, I'm actually here. There we go.

3
00:00:04.589 --> 00:00:04.859
Jason Schrader: Okay.

4
00:00:05.220 --> 00:00:07.710
Blockstack Meeting: Good, yeah. So that should be recording now.

5
00:00:09.120 --> 00:00:10.889
Blockstack Meeting: Share screen because we didn't share

6
00:00:13.950 --> 00:00:14.130
Blockstack Meeting: This

7
00:00:16.650 --> 00:00:20.430
Blockstack Meeting: Alright, so this is we should be all the same job, Eric, are you able to see my screen now.

8
00:00:24.960 --> 00:00:25.650
Jason Schrader: Yep, I can see it.

9
00:00:25.980 --> 00:00:26.670
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, perfect.

10
00:00:28.200 --> 00:00:39.420
Blockstack Meeting: Alright, so I guess the best way to go through is we'll just go from the top down and we can do some emoji voting that's off, it will work out another he has access to the Dropbox doc right now.

11
00:00:40.440 --> 00:00:46.620
Blockstack Meeting: The paper doc here. If you don't, you will go bad emoji. So just before we do, does everybody have

12
00:00:47.910 --> 00:00:51.120
Blockstack Meeting: Access to be able to do that, whoops, where's the call.

13
00:00:55.830 --> 00:00:59.070
Blockstack Meeting: Today, anyone not have access to Dropbox, the paper, Doc. So right now.

14
00:01:00.090 --> 00:01:06.090
Jason Schrader: I think I think this one's been shared before and everyone should have access to it. I just dropped a link in the chat for anybody to

15
00:01:06.150 --> 00:01:07.170
Jason Schrader: They need it that way.

16
00:01:07.680 --> 00:01:08.820
Blockstack Meeting: Thanks much appreciated.

17
00:01:09.540 --> 00:01:11.970
Blockstack Meeting: And okay, so we'll just go from the top down.

18
00:01:13.050 --> 00:01:22.890
Blockstack Meeting: And maybe you could read them. I'll get a little bit of like a understanding of what it's about. And then after we've gone through them all. Then at the votes. How's that sound.

19
00:01:28.350 --> 00:01:31.140
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, sounds must be everything's okay. All right.

20
00:01:32.580 --> 00:01:40.950
Blockstack Meeting: OK, so the version from the top matters support community built decentralized roddick's knows something when I attended that other governance call that was something that came up, then

21
00:01:42.780 --> 00:01:49.020
Blockstack Meeting: Is there anything around as the needs to be discussed for the ones discussed when I call out or if there's been changes since that time.

22
00:01:50.850 --> 00:01:55.020
Blockstack Meeting: Jason, do you have any updates on the racks and all of a sudden you are looking at interested in

23
00:01:56.610 --> 00:02:01.890
Jason Schrader: Yeah, I think this one keeps coming up, because one of the bigger challenges for developers at this point is

24
00:02:01.890 --> 00:02:02.940
Jason Schrader: Being able to

25
00:02:02.970 --> 00:02:11.550
Jason Schrader: share data between applications. So roddick's and collections kind of tie in together. So being able to have a multiplayer app is

26
00:02:11.580 --> 00:02:23.400
Jason Schrader: somewhat difficult, given the current infrastructure, but the actual idea behind it, and what's been worked on. I don't think there's been any actual updates to it in a little while, but I know it was Hanks project his baby.

27
00:02:23.730 --> 00:02:32.760
Jason Schrader: For quite a bit as well. And it's just something that people really wanted to see come together. So aside from that, I don't have any other updates on that particular project.

28
00:02:33.510 --> 00:02:38.010
Blockstack Meeting: And so Radek sang collections. Do you see them like they be part one grant proposal or separate

29
00:02:40.770 --> 00:02:51.960
Jason Schrader: That's an interesting question, and I would probably defer that to an app founder or somebody who could better described their exact situation they're going through, because I think collections is more like a schema for data.

30
00:02:52.320 --> 00:03:05.040
Jason Schrader: So, you know, we're just saying that we want. If I'm going to have a note, for example, and I want to be able to move that note between note riot and P notes, then they should both have a similar structure. So it's really easy to move my data between applications.

31
00:03:05.370 --> 00:03:15.210
Jason Schrader: So I think there are definitely two bigger topics and they can be separate, but I think they definitely play well together. I mean, we're talking about a multiplayer app or something else. It would be like, hey, I use that format to

32
00:03:16.020 --> 00:03:23.490
Jason Schrader: So I would keep them separate is my inclination, but I don't know if I would be the best person to answer for that as well.

33
00:03:24.330 --> 00:03:25.200
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, anyone else.

34
00:03:25.980 --> 00:03:46.560
Juliet Oberding: I'll jump. Perfect, yeah. This is JULIET I'll jump in here on this and I think they're really together as far as a grant proposal, this should be together. The only thing the difference that I see based on past discussions amongst app founders is that

35
00:03:48.030 --> 00:03:50.520
Juliet Oberding: It's depending on the language that's used

36
00:03:51.600 --> 00:03:58.500
Juliet Oberding: And that is some prefer collections over Roddick but the idea of collections over Radek so

37
00:04:00.180 --> 00:04:04.620
Juliet Oberding: I think they're a part and parcel of the same thing.

38
00:04:05.640 --> 00:04:08.130
Juliet Oberding: So, but, but then again.

39
00:04:09.390 --> 00:04:31.410
Juliet Oberding: It's something that we have to come to a decision about which direction we're going forward towards whether it's Radek for collections and that needs some more community input as far as this particular, are these line items. Sorry, that made it as clear as mud, I guess.

40
00:04:32.760 --> 00:04:37.890
Blockstack Meeting: That's all good. So do you think I should add another point managers for can we build decentralized collections and roddick's

41
00:04:37.950 --> 00:04:38.640
Blockstack Meeting: Like on one line.

42
00:04:39.540 --> 00:04:40.260
Blockstack Meeting: You separate vote.

43
00:04:40.290 --> 00:04:40.590
Um,

44
00:04:44.850 --> 00:04:45.600
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah.

45
00:04:46.860 --> 00:04:54.720
Juliet Oberding: Yeah, whether we I think that might be a good idea. Um, but if there's anyone else who has some input on that. I'm glad to hear it.

46
00:05:03.720 --> 00:05:04.380
Blockstack Meeting: Paste in here.

47
00:05:07.140 --> 00:05:07.590
Blockstack Meeting: Oh there.

48
00:05:07.680 --> 00:05:09.750
Blockstack Meeting: Looks like Jason you're editing it right now. Okay.

49
00:05:11.730 --> 00:05:12.810
Jason Schrader: Yeah, I was gonna throw in a few

50
00:05:13.020 --> 00:05:15.720
Jason Schrader: Resources just two things kind of related to both

51
00:05:17.220 --> 00:05:21.750
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, cool. Thank you for that was the only get in. It wasn't admitting him for

52
00:05:23.130 --> 00:05:25.650
Blockstack Meeting: Joining now he might have some good feedback on that to

53
00:05:29.280 --> 00:05:32.760
Blockstack Meeting: See if his bike is act to feel variable here.

54
00:05:39.720 --> 00:05:42.630
Blockstack Meeting: For. Yeah, I have to admit, you and I hadn't. That was my bad. Sorry about that.

55
00:05:43.500 --> 00:05:53.160
Blockstack Meeting: We were just talking about whether this point here, of having racks and collections as part of one grant proposal if that is the way to go.

56
00:05:53.910 --> 00:06:05.160
Blockstack Meeting: So people were at founders. So, Julia was just talking about her experience, whether or not, they'd be something that would be part of a single proposal or today would go in as one proposal together. So we thought about that.

57
00:06:10.230 --> 00:06:28.740
Phillip Roe: Well, actually we build our own Radek so instead of graphics, you use the not because they're writing. The problem with that is centralized has a part of that is centralized so we are using something different. And so we use a good idea to have it to really

58
00:06:29.820 --> 00:06:30.750
Phillip Roe: Review that

59
00:06:32.610 --> 00:06:37.110
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, sure. Do you see it is if there was a proposal collections will be part of it.

60
00:06:39.120 --> 00:06:49.020
Blockstack Meeting: Or do they like for what you've done and just kind of collections doesn't have to be a partner did Jason side water being like a if you had a multiplayer kind of app, you kind of need to have both together.

61
00:06:51.540 --> 00:06:54.870
Phillip Roe: Well, actually, for for your interaction between

62
00:06:57.060 --> 00:06:59.460
Phillip Roe: That's we are not going to have the same

63
00:07:01.140 --> 00:07:11.190
Phillip Roe: Same back. By the way, because that means in the same app, you use the concept of sharing because you have the chair of keys and all that you can

64
00:07:11.730 --> 00:07:16.560
Phillip Roe: Do the same point is. But what about what happened with you another like a CRM.

65
00:07:17.760 --> 00:07:31.800
Phillip Roe: And then we did with that you cannot just so then a collection will be in a way that order. The way to interact, but maybe a collection could be something that will be I pick them over to him to all

66
00:07:32.940 --> 00:07:37.890
Phillip Roe: For the same concept. So in order for the own app, but also for the

67
00:07:39.450 --> 00:07:40.290
Phillip Roe: Third party data.

68
00:07:41.400 --> 00:07:41.610
Blockstack Meeting: Right.

69
00:07:41.640 --> 00:07:44.430
Phillip Roe: Who doesn't is not a bad idea to have all integrated

70
00:07:45.180 --> 00:07:46.110
Blockstack Meeting: Right, okay.

71
00:07:46.170 --> 00:07:48.990
Phillip Roe: Yeah well sorry about, you know, just entering and talking

72
00:07:49.110 --> 00:07:52.050
Blockstack Meeting: It's okay. It's okay. I was the one who lets you enter late those my fault. So

73
00:07:53.430 --> 00:07:56.070
Blockstack Meeting: So all I did is a third line. We can do an emoji vote on it.

74
00:07:57.540 --> 00:08:03.630
Blockstack Meeting: If people prefer to have them separate than that's totally fine to we'll see how the votes come out.

75
00:08:04.860 --> 00:08:05.400
Blockstack Meeting: For

76
00:08:12.060 --> 00:08:15.600
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, then the next one are developed proposal for new version of app ID.

77
00:08:18.330 --> 00:08:19.560
Blockstack Meeting: Thoughts on that one.

78
00:08:26.580 --> 00:08:28.170
Blockstack Meeting: Sounds like you may not be top of mind.

79
00:08:30.240 --> 00:08:30.540
Blockstack Meeting: Okay.

80
00:08:31.080 --> 00:08:32.910
Lane Rettig: Hey guys Hey Ryan, this is lane.

81
00:08:33.660 --> 00:08:34.320
Lane Rettig: Yeah, just

82
00:08:34.500 --> 00:08:44.550
Lane Rettig: Very, very briefly on that mining and started by the way I'm on. I'm on an Internet connection with very high latency. So sorry if it takes me a second to respond. Um,

83
00:08:45.120 --> 00:08:58.230
Lane Rettig: Yeah, I just wanted to mention that this, you know, has been part of our vision for this governance project since the very, very beginning and also that it's something that came up in a lot of the like one on one interviews we did there was also

84
00:09:00.120 --> 00:09:07.560
Lane Rettig: A lot of interest expressed in this in the survey communities after we'd have to discuss in more concrete terms, what

85
00:09:08.610 --> 00:09:18.690
Lane Rettig: a grant proposal would look like for this, but it is I think something where the governance group could add a lot of value or, or, for that matter, anyone you know working on this as a grant could could potentially add a lot of

86
00:09:24.060 --> 00:09:28.380
Blockstack Meeting: Okay that's good background Dan is getting in here to Stan's joining

87
00:09:30.120 --> 00:09:31.080
Blockstack Meeting: Okay. Hey, Dan.

88
00:09:31.770 --> 00:09:32.100
Dan Trevino: Thank you.

89
00:09:32.940 --> 00:09:36.030
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, sorry about that. I used to this admitted button.

90
00:09:37.080 --> 00:09:45.840
Blockstack Meeting: But Easter. Alright, so that's the admin one develop contributing guidelines for GitHub repos, see who is Jenny you added that

91
00:09:47.640 --> 00:09:52.710
Blockstack Meeting: Any thoughts on that one. Is that something that is good for a grant proposal.

92
00:09:59.730 --> 00:10:04.380
Jason Schrader: You know with with all the work I've been doing on the the GitHub repos and stuff. I don't know.

93
00:10:05.610 --> 00:10:14.940
Jason Schrader: It. I think it makes sense that it needs to exist. But I don't know how much it would fit into a grant proposal or it might be something small or simple one to sort of take on and learn the process.

94
00:10:15.990 --> 00:10:21.750
Jason Schrader: But that one. I mean, next to some of these other items, we're talking about is it should be a very simple thing to implement

95
00:10:22.440 --> 00:10:31.980
Jason Schrader: And it will. It'll take a little bit of time, of course, and time should be compensated as as as a very limited resource that we all have. But at the same time I'm

96
00:10:32.640 --> 00:10:40.380
Jason Schrader: Looking at next to these other things like, wow, that's a, that's a really small one that might be more fun to just kind of push through and test the grants process.

97
00:10:41.880 --> 00:10:49.140
Blockstack Meeting: Right. Okay. So, I mean, yeah, if you were to use as a test that would be good. Maybe it was it's smaller. What I'll do is just put it in italics for now.

98
00:10:50.580 --> 00:11:02.790
Blockstack Meeting: And as we're going through these when we do the emoji voting will be able to see quite quickly if something is like something that would be a good tester. I don't think it's a bad idea to have a tester, but why don't you

99
00:11:03.960 --> 00:11:08.130
Blockstack Meeting: Start with something small, or just. Can I do something bigger, that might be more impactful.

100
00:11:09.180 --> 00:11:11.490
Blockstack Meeting: That'll be up to the governance committee so

101
00:11:14.040 --> 00:11:18.420
Blockstack Meeting: All right, so develop can be evil code of conduct sash manifesto for the stacks community.

102
00:11:19.620 --> 00:11:21.810
Blockstack Meeting: who I really am. You might have thoughts on island.

103
00:11:25.410 --> 00:11:26.490
Blockstack Meeting: Or anyone else, of course.

104
00:11:27.840 --> 00:11:30.180
Phillip Roe: Well, actually, that's something very important that

105
00:11:31.410 --> 00:11:36.090
Phillip Roe: I will be wary about that. That is, is if

106
00:11:37.500 --> 00:11:51.630
Phillip Roe: We have seen. I have seen and probably and Dan and Pascal have been in phase that also gave them that this many new commerce to the community.

107
00:11:52.410 --> 00:12:04.620
Phillip Roe: And then there's something that we had to put put be sure that we have that beforehand because every week we don't become more people and and

108
00:12:05.220 --> 00:12:18.000
Phillip Roe: And then a pro have a really having a protecting the the values of the community. It's important. So we have to at least make an effort on that and I

109
00:12:19.800 --> 00:12:32.760
Phillip Roe: Like lane has compiled on that survey and also he has a lot of material there so we can, we have to do a task. Well, he is, you're talking about a grant, but maybe a grant or something like that and

110
00:12:33.780 --> 00:12:51.420
Phillip Roe: It's we have to do it anyways and that that's very important, very important right now. The community is growing and in a very rapid pace. And so if we don't achieve that in very soon we're going to have many problems in the near future.

111
00:12:53.730 --> 00:12:54.030
Blockstack Meeting: Right.

112
00:12:54.720 --> 00:12:56.220
Lane Rettig: That makes sense. I agree with Philip

113
00:12:57.300 --> 00:12:57.870
Lane Rettig: I'm

114
00:12:59.640 --> 00:13:11.610
Lane Rettig: Sorry delayed internet connection. I'm in the mountains on a satellite connection. So it's a little, little bad. No, thank you. I could not agree more with your point about the importance. I think that this is super critical

115
00:13:13.140 --> 00:13:28.290
Lane Rettig: And I also feel, I would say the same thing about this that Jason said a moment ago about the GitHub contribution guidelines, which is to say that it's a relatively small task and some of this work has already been done and therefore, I think it's a great candidate for an

116
00:13:28.320 --> 00:13:29.130
Lane Rettig: Early grant

117
00:13:29.160 --> 00:13:33.210
Lane Rettig: Because it should be relatively self contained in relatively quick and relatively like as well.

118
00:13:35.730 --> 00:13:39.270
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, good. Yeah, it sounds like because it would have like a definite endpoint.

119
00:13:40.860 --> 00:13:42.630
Blockstack Meeting: Which would be beneficial for like a tester.

120
00:13:42.870 --> 00:13:47.880
Lane Rettig: Yeah definitely endpoint, as well as I mean as a deliverable. It's a single document and we know it.

121
00:13:47.880 --> 00:13:49.410
Lane Rettig: Can't be longer than a page or two.

122
00:13:49.410 --> 00:13:53.670
Lane Rettig: So, like that. That's a great ideal candidate for a straightforward. Just a thought. Okay.

123
00:13:54.210 --> 00:13:56.640
Blockstack Meeting: So I'm gonna put that one in italics as well, just like I did the one above

124
00:13:57.300 --> 00:14:00.690
Blockstack Meeting: Just because it can be one that could be done more quickly and more definitively. Yes.

125
00:14:01.920 --> 00:14:08.970
Blockstack Meeting: Alright so next one. This was years Dan develop a proposal for how the group should evolve to allow wider community participation and leadership.

126
00:14:11.490 --> 00:14:12.570
Blockstack Meeting: Would you have in mind there.

127
00:14:19.500 --> 00:14:21.930
Blockstack Meeting: Hopefully, his audio is working. Dan, can you hear us okay

128
00:14:22.620 --> 00:14:23.220
Blockstack Meeting: Sorry, yeah.

129
00:14:26.940 --> 00:14:28.680
Dan Trevino: Is there a question about that.

130
00:14:28.710 --> 00:14:36.990
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, just kind of going through. So we're just doing. I know you joined later. So just going through these to figure out, like if there's any background information before we do some emoji voting on them.

131
00:14:38.160 --> 00:14:45.000
Blockstack Meeting: To see which ones will float to the top. So is this one, like when you put it in here was this one that

132
00:14:46.320 --> 00:14:48.210
Blockstack Meeting: Like, why do you think it's something that could be good for a grant

133
00:14:48.750 --> 00:14:58.860
Dan Trevino: Yeah, I think it's, it's something I think is important. If this group is going to persist and if the intention of this is a as a group.

134
00:15:00.210 --> 00:15:02.340
To kind of be leaving

135
00:15:03.750 --> 00:15:07.260
The community is if that's the idea of what we're doing.

136
00:15:10.830 --> 00:15:17.310
Yeah, because I'd like to see obviously more involvement more transparency, more sharing with the wider community.

137
00:15:18.510 --> 00:15:23.370
Dan Trevino: And also, more inclusion and making sure we have a plan for how to get those folks.

138
00:15:24.240 --> 00:15:37.080
Dan Trevino: Involved, if it's if the intention of this group and these early proposals is not to have something that's going to be persistent or not enough to produce doing testing. This is something that can maybe put out to

139
00:15:39.240 --> 00:15:41.340
Dan Trevino: You know, this group or some other group later.

140
00:15:43.560 --> 00:15:43.770
Yeah.

141
00:15:47.250 --> 00:15:51.570
Blockstack Meeting: All right, Jason or Juliet you added some bullet points in there. If you wanted to add anything to that maybe

142
00:15:53.970 --> 00:15:54.390
Blockstack Meeting: Some of that.

143
00:15:55.260 --> 00:15:59.940
Jason Schrader: Sure. So, so for that first bullet point I added my, my main goal with that was just

144
00:15:59.940 --> 00:16:06.390
Jason Schrader: To get us thinking about what the actual flow of information is like, you know, things that we have regularly, we have this meeting.

145
00:16:06.750 --> 00:16:17.760
Jason Schrader: The meeting usually leads to a transcript or some kind of notes, it would lead to some kind of general update for the community. And that would be nice content that could lead into a blog post or an email newsletter or something else. So

146
00:16:18.090 --> 00:16:22.560
Jason Schrader: Really just a note about thinking of a regular cadence that we can take

147
00:16:22.920 --> 00:16:34.710
Jason Schrader: Content from the meetings and push it all the way through back out to the community for that same kind of wider reach that way people who didn't attend, you know, being able to view the videos in the back of the nose has been huge. I think for a lot of people

148
00:16:35.160 --> 00:16:44.370
Jason Schrader: And I don't want that to fall off. Now that things are kind of changing around a bit and we're looking at structure type things. So that's, that's my background for that one.

149
00:16:45.150 --> 00:16:48.600
Blockstack Meeting: So kind of creating a formalized process for these meetings so they can continue that.

150
00:16:49.050 --> 00:16:49.560
Blockstack Meeting: Stays right

151
00:16:51.750 --> 00:17:06.780
Jason Schrader: Yeah, yeah. And some of that is, is kind of like we've been doing in the GitHub issues, right, like we've tried to establish the difference between action items and discussion items and things we can act on in the meetings. We've had a sort of regular update cadence that fell off.

152
00:17:07.860 --> 00:17:10.830
Jason Schrader: Early on, but it used to be, you know, the meeting, we would get the

153
00:17:11.190 --> 00:17:17.550
Jason Schrader: video link up, we would get the note link up, we will get any documents shared on the meeting as part of something so people could easily look back

154
00:17:17.880 --> 00:17:23.760
Jason Schrader: And then the next step was to publish some sort of update and that would be like a high level overview of this is what happened in the meeting.

155
00:17:24.060 --> 00:17:32.010
Jason Schrader: And that would be a nice thing to share with the community for those who couldn't attend or don't want to watch the video or go back. So yeah, just some kind of normal

156
00:17:32.460 --> 00:17:39.870
Jason Schrader: Almost like a marketing plan or regular thing that happens, alongside the meetings to make sure that it's accessible to as many people as possible.

157
00:17:41.970 --> 00:17:45.660
Blockstack Meeting: Yes, that falls into it written there Julia transparency.

158
00:17:47.160 --> 00:17:49.260
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, transparency and

159
00:17:49.260 --> 00:17:51.690
Juliet Oberding: Also structure. I think that that's

160
00:17:52.170 --> 00:18:05.370
Juliet Oberding: Something that it provides structure where we have the agenda, we have the meeting. We then provide the updates that goes into a blog post or something to get out to the community so they know exactly what we're doing.

161
00:18:05.730 --> 00:18:19.860
Juliet Oberding: And if that falls off and we're not going to be able to get community participation and what I've seen recently as there's so many changes happening that structure seems to have disappeared and so

162
00:18:21.150 --> 00:18:27.120
Juliet Oberding: One of the things, one of the goals of the last meeting last week that I couldn't be a part of was

163
00:18:28.230 --> 00:18:33.510
Juliet Oberding: To bring voices from the community into this this particular group.

164
00:18:33.990 --> 00:18:55.680
Juliet Oberding: So that we could hear what do people actually want to see developed by this group or grant proposal by this group that is really going to support the community. And so having structure like this like Jason talks about this is just super important for us. So that's my two bits on it.

165
00:18:59.610 --> 00:19:05.970
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, important for sure. Okay, I don't want to be biased here, but I'm not a part of this community rate so

166
00:19:07.140 --> 00:19:10.320
Blockstack Meeting: All right, so it's good to have that one. Okay, so the next one.

167
00:19:15.000 --> 00:19:17.370
Blockstack Meeting: Was that Philip, you were breaking up there and you say, Oh, that's good.

168
00:19:17.610 --> 00:19:21.480
Phillip Roe: That's good, that's good. You, you, you have a fresh mind on this.

169
00:19:22.860 --> 00:19:23.730
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, that's

170
00:19:24.240 --> 00:19:26.460
Blockstack Meeting: I'm just coming in for a game here right so

171
00:19:28.200 --> 00:19:31.620
Blockstack Meeting: Alright, so the next one organizing governance hackathon.

172
00:19:32.940 --> 00:19:34.440
Blockstack Meeting: Lane and doing speak to one.

173
00:19:37.740 --> 00:19:42.240
Lane Rettig: Or I mean it's fairly self explanatory, but very, very briefly.

174
00:19:42.540 --> 00:19:52.590
Lane Rettig: I like hackathons. We felt like hackathons. They're relatively i mean you know this is clearly like an online thing, which means it's pretty low touch. It's pretty cheap. It's not that

175
00:19:52.800 --> 00:20:01.530
Lane Rettig: Difficult to get these things together. I don't think they require a great deal of logistics or planning or marketing. I mean, it's some obviously but there's also some

176
00:20:01.860 --> 00:20:11.190
Lane Rettig: Platforms that exist to make this pretty straightforward. We've seen a number of these governance, the impact of things happen in the kind of broader blockchain and Ethereum community.

177
00:20:11.640 --> 00:20:20.550
Lane Rettig: And there are communities like get con is a good example that have facilitated organizing these types of events before and I

178
00:20:21.600 --> 00:20:30.810
Lane Rettig: Don't know. I mean, I think that there are elements of the blocks that platform that lend themselves quite well to building these sorts of tools. And I think that

179
00:20:31.680 --> 00:20:37.470
Lane Rettig: You know we have a lot of experimentation happening with things like bows and some of the things I mentioned in the next bullet point here.

180
00:20:38.070 --> 00:20:45.570
Lane Rettig: That it would be really exciting to bring into the stacks ecosystem as well, especially given you know the launch of sex 2.0 and the clarity language and

181
00:20:50.760 --> 00:20:54.510
Blockstack Meeting: Make sense. Any other thoughts on on for governance around

182
00:20:57.360 --> 00:21:01.170
Lane Rettig: It. By the way, it doesn't have to be governance, the and it could just be, you know, there could be

183
00:21:02.610 --> 00:21:05.640
Lane Rettig: Other texts hackathons are the first one doesn't have to have a specific date.

184
00:21:06.960 --> 00:21:08.160
Blockstack Meeting: Sure. Cool.

185
00:21:09.210 --> 00:21:17.790
Dan Trevino: Hey lane. Just a quick question. Have you done a governance hackathon. I know you said doesn't have to be governance, but have you done governance Hackathon before. Like, is there something I can go back and look at

186
00:21:19.680 --> 00:21:20.340
Just curious.

187
00:21:24.030 --> 00:21:32.880
Lane Rettig: Kind of yes. The answer is, like, sort of, let me follow up offline. And I will find some examples to send to you. That's a good question, and I can share with the group as well.

188
00:21:34.320 --> 00:21:47.280
Blockstack Meeting: Cool. Yeah, if you post in the governance discord channel there. That'd be good for that one demo to see, it's good. OK. And then so pop on down to Dan your next one. They're fun development for a guy, how the inbox is

189
00:21:49.230 --> 00:21:51.840
Dan Trevino: Yeah, this was something mentioned by free your

190
00:21:53.100 --> 00:22:02.070
Dan Trevino: When I think we talked about it in the Dysport he pointed back to his art to like it's a discussion initiated by Aaron, a long time ago.

191
00:22:03.300 --> 00:22:06.300
Dan Trevino: This is just a feature development feature.

192
00:22:07.440 --> 00:22:09.240
Dan Trevino: Semi related to the next bullet point

193
00:22:12.840 --> 00:22:15.600
Blockstack Meeting: So was the next bullet point, the one that you were more thinking when you

194
00:22:16.260 --> 00:22:24.660
Dan Trevino: Well I the first the first, the guy who have been boxes. I just wanted to capture for years feedback, since he hadn't added it to

195
00:22:27.240 --> 00:22:32.280
Dan Trevino: Put it into the into the discord. I want to make sure we captured that community input.

196
00:22:34.230 --> 00:22:38.190
Dan Trevino: Yeah but but semi related or, I guess, very, very much related

197
00:22:40.200 --> 00:22:45.660
Dan Trevino: I mentioned somewhere else. I think user profiles are

198
00:22:46.140 --> 00:22:47.820
Blockstack Meeting: At the boat right below there. Yeah.

199
00:22:47.850 --> 00:22:57.690
Dan Trevino: user profiles are kind of lacking right now and with new version of connect we've kind of moved away from giving users the ability to update profiles.

200
00:22:58.890 --> 00:23:13.320
Dan Trevino: If they want to personalize there's no we've taken away all the features from the, from the box that browser related to identity right so simplifies things, a great deal, but from feedback. I've heard

201
00:23:15.060 --> 00:23:21.540
Dan Trevino: There's a desire to have some sort of profile management and again this element item.

202
00:23:22.920 --> 00:23:36.480
Dan Trevino: I've tried. I've tried to talk to a few people about how important this is to that. I think we've got users who want to add their profiles and developers who'd like to enable some level of personalization in their apps.

203
00:23:37.800 --> 00:23:45.480
Dan Trevino: So the inbox is could be part of that could be profiles plus one. But right now I'm personally

204
00:23:45.780 --> 00:23:49.950
Blockstack Meeting: Even outside the script, kind of, kind of, Marshall some support.

205
00:23:49.980 --> 00:23:57.330
Dan Trevino: Around having profiles and what they might look like. And I think essentially replicating that's already existing

206
00:23:58.500 --> 00:24:02.310
Dan Trevino: And I'll be opening up a GitHub issue and then

207
00:24:04.380 --> 00:24:12.990
Dan Trevino: And asking everybody who's, who's interested to make sure they put their input into that and I think this is something like for later.

208
00:24:15.510 --> 00:24:18.030
Blockstack Meeting: This right or maybe directory for this grant

209
00:24:19.110 --> 00:24:31.650
Blockstack Meeting: Is everything and like it's a longer term. Yes. Okay. Cool. Alright, so I'm going to it because the other ones were never short ones I put in a tag. So put this one in bold just which we've got some of our differentiation here.

210
00:24:34.080 --> 00:24:39.870
Blockstack Meeting: And alright so the last two here, Harold you had them had and here you are, speak to him.

211
00:24:41.130 --> 00:24:41.760
Harold Davis: Yeah, sure.

212
00:24:43.050 --> 00:24:51.360
Harold Davis: So the first one here is a support for a path to decentralizing should be governments network again they be another long term.

213
00:24:53.130 --> 00:24:57.270
Harold Davis: You know option that we have for this this grant proposal list.

214
00:24:58.950 --> 00:25:08.310
Harold Davis: And the idea behind it is similar to ideas that I've brought here in the past but a little bit more broad than the specific ideas that I had before.

215
00:25:09.570 --> 00:25:11.430
Harold Davis: And it's it's generally very

216
00:25:13.020 --> 00:25:25.260
Harold Davis: I think it's important that this governance Working Group has its own distributed qualities. And I think that the you know that it can be some some support for

217
00:25:26.370 --> 00:25:32.220
Harold Davis: This sentiment right to be able to establish, you know, a global network very

218
00:25:33.570 --> 00:25:37.710
Harold Davis: You know, listen to realizing we are today in the future. And I think that

219
00:25:38.970 --> 00:25:47.430
Harold Davis: There's been some mentioned in the process documentation of deploying blockchains and seeing which

220
00:25:48.360 --> 00:26:00.930
Harold Davis: Which models for blockchains or more or sufficient or not based on whether or not the blockchain is is self sufficient. So I think that that may be something to combine with, like I said, this is more long term effort.

221
00:26:02.310 --> 00:26:08.550
Harold Davis: To be able to vet out you know which which grants you know should continue

222
00:26:10.500 --> 00:26:14.970
Harold Davis: You know, to get support or which one is have kind of ran the course and didn't work out.

223
00:26:16.140 --> 00:26:22.920
Harold Davis: And then the second bullet. I have after that is another reference to freedom and some things that we've been

224
00:26:24.000 --> 00:26:28.500
Harold Davis: mulling over in this group for communication modes of communication.

225
00:26:29.580 --> 00:26:40.050
Harold Davis: I remember for mentioning that, you know, if we don't support, you know, open source versions of communication, you know, rather than you.

226
00:26:41.550 --> 00:26:41.790
Harold Davis: Know,

227
00:26:43.530 --> 00:26:53.340
Harold Davis: Selling increasingly more some of the web two options that we know we have in these things never move along. Right. So I think it seems like a good opportunity to

228
00:26:53.970 --> 00:27:12.240
Harold Davis: To support some of the work that food is already done with this live chat right just putting blocks off onto a polished chat client that I know that the matrix community uses for for their community meetings monthly or weekly, whatever it is. So yeah, those are my my two boys, they're

229
00:27:13.710 --> 00:27:17.550
Harold Davis: Happy to hear any thoughts on it on that first or second porn as well.

230
00:27:23.820 --> 00:27:31.080
Phillip Roe: What comment about the support for web three or stack based communication. That means mentioned there probably is.

231
00:27:33.150 --> 00:27:38.040
Phillip Roe: Something that we can do under the concept of micro services that

232
00:27:39.510 --> 00:27:48.120
Phillip Roe: That concept is very now spread out and in the internet development area, especially

233
00:27:49.200 --> 00:27:51.240
Phillip Roe: Netflix have developed our own

234
00:27:52.260 --> 00:28:06.150
Phillip Roe: Protocol in order to define those happy API's for microservices, and I had not been able to ever with the you know the the similarity with the the stacks platform.

235
00:28:06.690 --> 00:28:18.210
Phillip Roe: In terms of how that the stacks could be the way to distribute this microservices and and so then instead of having this other stuff of microservices, and then

236
00:28:18.840 --> 00:28:41.850
Phillip Roe: Have us stacks node as a way to enter the micro services. So that's something that would be probably time to understand what you're thinking, because it's excuse but based on the micro services. And in a way, not explicitly but it's talking about communications and all that. And so

237
00:28:43.110 --> 00:28:54.900
Phillip Roe: That that could be interesting ELISA and in terms of research could be interesting way to to stimulate and because that's something that we address that and when we when

238
00:28:55.980 --> 00:28:56.100
Harold Davis: We

239
00:28:56.250 --> 00:29:00.120
Harold Davis: Agree on yeah I think free as a lot off it's changed but it's like

240
00:29:00.480 --> 00:29:12.810
Harold Davis: $1 per user for service support from the Matrix home service, but I mentioned before, to as well that you know Judas mentioned the possibilities with POS for in browser server.

241
00:29:13.920 --> 00:29:23.940
Harold Davis: In browser servers, you know, just contracts, you know, being able to get to pioneer a new server infrastructure so that in combination with

242
00:29:24.540 --> 00:29:34.320
Harold Davis: Some of the pioneering work matrix community is done may also, you know, in combination with what you said. Philip and also the important research to support you.

243
00:29:40.320 --> 00:29:50.790
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, cool. Thank you for summer no summarizing those ones. They're all right, I guess. So then with that I'm at the bottom of this. I do have some ice cream. Here I got

244
00:29:51.990 --> 00:29:55.290
Blockstack Meeting: The thread from the forum where people were adding things as well.

245
00:29:57.120 --> 00:30:04.500
Blockstack Meeting: So here's for years is days, Julia. It's got facts and collections, which is already in the doc then Brad added

246
00:30:06.270 --> 00:30:08.910
Blockstack Meeting: Financial Reports contributing to stack development.

247
00:30:12.240 --> 00:30:16.410
Blockstack Meeting: Mostly just ideas for further exploration. The way I'm reading it.

248
00:30:17.460 --> 00:30:28.080
Blockstack Meeting: But if anybody wants to speak to what Brad was talking about here. Did I read through those conversations with him, or if that's just an idea. He posted this thread quickly or, you know,

249
00:30:33.510 --> 00:30:35.220
Juliet Oberding: What is, what are you seeing

250
00:30:36.600 --> 00:30:37.140
Juliet Oberding: Where am I see it.

251
00:30:37.170 --> 00:30:42.120
Blockstack Meeting: On on this on my screen share if you can see it, but you're on the phone right looks like.

252
00:30:42.360 --> 00:30:49.050
Juliet Oberding: So I also I'm also looking at looking at the dock itself, it's on your screen share. Hang on. Yeah, yeah.

253
00:30:49.110 --> 00:30:53.670
Blockstack Meeting: So it's on. It's in the forum. So that's why I'll put the link in the chat. Okay.

254
00:30:57.420 --> 00:31:01.680
Blockstack Meeting: We're chatting through so many buttons weird admin on one of these fancy accounts.

255
00:31:04.290 --> 00:31:14.850
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, there we go. This is Jenny's account for Community stuff. So it's getting used to hear but that's, yeah. You're supposed to the chat there and see it there.

256
00:31:16.350 --> 00:31:17.220
Blockstack Meeting: But also the screenshot.

257
00:31:18.990 --> 00:31:20.280
Blockstack Meeting: Hopefully, as long as that's still sharing

258
00:31:25.110 --> 00:31:26.310
Jason Schrader: Oh yes, it's still on the screen.

259
00:31:27.120 --> 00:31:27.510
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, good.

260
00:31:29.400 --> 00:31:37.170
Blockstack Meeting: But yeah, so we can talk to talk about those things to if those are something that like I could copy them over to the main doc as well.

261
00:31:37.680 --> 00:31:52.650
Blockstack Meeting: If that is an interest. Yeah, I don't know much about these two ideas or that Brad's time under he's not here. So yeah, that's kind of where that's at. But we can move them over fine you and wants to, like, what do you think Chicago

262
00:31:56.640 --> 00:32:01.980
Jason Schrader: I think the more information we have in one place, the better. So I don't know if I'm

263
00:32:03.930 --> 00:32:13.440
Jason Schrader: I'm a little against the Dropbox paper as like a place to go, but right now it has become that. So, at the very least, I think at least we'll have a representation of everything in one place.

264
00:32:13.950 --> 00:32:17.160
Jason Schrader: And you know, it's funny when we're when we're talking about emoji voting and kind of

265
00:32:17.160 --> 00:32:33.480
Jason Schrader: Deciding over these things I can tell that, you know, there's two hearts for roddick's collections five hearts for the guy hub in boxes. I'm not sure if we can see who those are from on the forum or anything else but obviously people have expressed some interest in those items as well.

266
00:32:34.170 --> 00:32:35.490
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, I actually

267
00:32:37.440 --> 00:32:41.190
Blockstack Meeting: I feel like this posts, see. Okay, there we go. So

268
00:32:41.280 --> 00:32:43.920
Jason Schrader: Okay. So some of us that are here. Yeah.

269
00:32:43.980 --> 00:32:46.470
Blockstack Meeting: Julia Dan Yep, exactly.

270
00:32:50.130 --> 00:32:55.560
Blockstack Meeting: But some people might have seen this post and I've seen Juliet's kind of thing. Like there's five days apart right so it's not

271
00:32:57.180 --> 00:32:59.940
Blockstack Meeting: It's good to have the conversation, regardless of the votes in the forum so

272
00:33:03.480 --> 00:33:05.190
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah okay so

273
00:33:08.310 --> 00:33:09.900
Blockstack Meeting: Here's your brand's ideas.

274
00:33:11.400 --> 00:33:11.970
Blockstack Meeting: Okay.

275
00:33:14.850 --> 00:33:23.610
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, so I'll just add those in here so we can do the emoji votes on here. It is the the central place at this moment where we're doing all this

276
00:33:26.490 --> 00:33:38.220
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, so I mean emotion or it doesn't have to be done that way. Is that something that down box a PVC does often so it's just something that works. If you guys want to invoke it a different way. It's your committee so it's really up to you.

277
00:33:40.470 --> 00:33:42.000
Blockstack Meeting: If you wanted to do, get out there like

278
00:33:43.350 --> 00:33:45.060
Blockstack Meeting: Debate. That's really a few

279
00:33:48.690 --> 00:33:49.290
Blockstack Meeting: What do you think

280
00:33:53.280 --> 00:33:58.350
I missed the discussion on rights. Was there any favors already

281
00:34:01.350 --> 00:34:04.620
Blockstack Meeting: Know that wasn't Jason was talking about that earlier on.

282
00:34:04.800 --> 00:34:05.790
Jason Schrader: Yeah, so

283
00:34:05.880 --> 00:34:16.170
Jason Schrader: So the point, there are the thing that we were considering and why there's a third bullet point. Now for the two together is one of the questions that came up is what we consider roddick's and collections to be

284
00:34:17.190 --> 00:34:21.600
Jason Schrader: One in the same like something we should go for a grant for both do we see them as being separate

285
00:34:22.290 --> 00:34:29.880
Jason Schrader: My vote is for separate but we had a few people voice that it would make sense to put it together as well. So if you have an opinion on that.

286
00:34:30.240 --> 00:34:47.700
Jason Schrader: Otherwise, I see it as something that people definitely want so that's that's one that I will voice that I think is, is definitely one that I would like to see things work toward because that whole ability for for multiplayer gaps is a big game changer in a lot of what we're doing.

287
00:34:53.040 --> 00:35:01.200
Juliet Oberding: And despite my wanting them to be separate. I've supported the decentralized collection so

288
00:35:02.520 --> 00:35:06.420
Juliet Oberding: I agree with both Philip and

289
00:35:08.250 --> 00:35:10.380
Juliet Oberding: Jason and their comments.

290
00:35:17.490 --> 00:35:19.830
Blockstack Meeting: I just call it when they were talking earlier, I think she means

291
00:35:21.540 --> 00:35:30.240
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, yeah. I think this person should be separate, but also I think there's a larger question about how much sex 2.0 and

292
00:35:31.620 --> 00:35:34.320
Replace roddick's that I think haven't been answered yet.

293
00:35:36.330 --> 00:35:43.380
There are certainly things you can do in sex 2.0 that would mitigate the need for addicts for some use cases.

294
00:35:44.760 --> 00:35:45.420
We understand

295
00:35:54.210 --> 00:36:13.320
Juliet Oberding: So maybe there needs to be more research on radical. Is that what you're suggesting. And that could be another bullet point on a grant proposal on research on radical as opposed to fully going into a grant proposal for building

296
00:36:14.580 --> 00:36:26.280
Juliet Oberding: A decentralized rabbit smell that perhaps there needs to be a grant proposal for research on products and then I would also throw in collection as well. What do you think

297
00:36:30.840 --> 00:36:32.880
Blockstack Meeting: Okay so add that in research.

298
00:36:35.640 --> 00:36:36.330
Blockstack Meeting: Ethics.

299
00:36:37.980 --> 00:36:39.990
Blockstack Meeting: Collections. I'll just put post stacks to

300
00:36:43.350 --> 00:36:43.620
Blockstack Meeting: Go.

301
00:36:46.110 --> 00:36:46.530
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, cool.

302
00:36:47.700 --> 00:36:57.090
Blockstack Meeting: So that's there. So probably a good time to emerge evil I Julia, you have access to be able to do that, you know, you're just calling in. Right, so

303
00:36:58.050 --> 00:37:07.320
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah you did. Okay, you had one for. Okay, good. Yeah. So if you want to take a couple minutes and then pop your mode, you say maybe each person has three

304
00:37:09.810 --> 00:37:13.590
Blockstack Meeting: And then we'll see where it ends up so take couple minutes to do that. I will mute.

305
00:37:16.980 --> 00:37:20.640
Lane Rettig: Doesn't matter which emoji. We use. Should we try to use unique ones are

306
00:37:21.210 --> 00:37:28.200
Blockstack Meeting: Just be consistent like as long as you use the same one, so it's easier to tell which ones you voted for so that people can see that as well.

307
00:38:33.090 --> 00:38:38.490
Blockstack Meeting: One more minute to anybody not have any votes it 1234

308
00:38:40.050 --> 00:38:42.630
Blockstack Meeting: Say, not everybody might have put a an emoji.

309
00:38:43.920 --> 00:38:46.170
Phillip Roe: Been able to put anything there.

310
00:38:49.920 --> 00:38:54.420
Blockstack Meeting: Which colon. They should just start populating them. Yeah.

311
00:38:57.630 --> 00:38:57.930
Phillip Roe: Okay.

312
00:39:12.030 --> 00:39:13.740
Juliet Oberding: You say that we get three votes.

313
00:39:15.480 --> 00:39:19.170
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, three. I mean, that's the idea because we're trying to get come up with two or three

314
00:39:19.530 --> 00:39:22.890
Blockstack Meeting: top ones to move to the next to the grant. Right.

315
00:39:23.100 --> 00:39:23.490
Blockstack Meeting: So,

316
00:39:23.610 --> 00:39:24.990
Blockstack Meeting: Choose your top three

317
00:40:24.300 --> 00:40:28.140
Blockstack Meeting: Alright, so keep your boat and go on if you're doing that, I'm just going to

318
00:40:28.410 --> 00:40:32.550
Blockstack Meeting: Take the emojis from the ends of the sensors and burned at the beginning so easy to compare

319
00:40:35.610 --> 00:40:39.840
Blockstack Meeting: If I accidentally cut years off. I am sorry, please.

320
00:40:41.430 --> 00:40:42.420
Blockstack Meeting: Put alert should be

321
00:41:05.400 --> 00:41:06.180
Blockstack Meeting: Clear

322
00:41:07.980 --> 00:41:08.310
Blockstack Meeting: They're, they're

323
00:41:18.330 --> 00:41:19.950
Blockstack Meeting: Almost at the end here.

324
00:41:24.000 --> 00:41:27.600
Blockstack Meeting: Anybody have any outstanding emojis to use

325
00:41:30.780 --> 00:41:33.450
Blockstack Meeting: Me if you don't want to use them all. You're just like a superfan

326
00:41:34.470 --> 00:41:37.470
Blockstack Meeting: The near future or you just like to avoid it, or whatever.

327
00:41:40.530 --> 00:41:42.090
Blockstack Meeting: But please check mark here.

328
00:41:45.120 --> 00:41:47.670
Jason Schrader: That was, that was mine. And that was for the guy have been boxes.

329
00:41:48.480 --> 00:41:50.400
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, cool. So just make sure put in the right spot.

330
00:41:52.380 --> 00:41:52.620
Blockstack Meeting: Okay.

331
00:41:53.700 --> 00:42:04.680
Blockstack Meeting: There we go. Okay, so then pencils down or mo geez down again. So, and Philip. You got yours there. Okay, good. So it looks like the top ones, it's a tie.

332
00:42:06.690 --> 00:42:07.530
Phillip Roe: And you use

333
00:42:08.040 --> 00:42:09.990
Blockstack Meeting: 333 yeah

334
00:42:11.130 --> 00:42:12.090
Phillip Roe: All over.

335
00:42:14.100 --> 00:42:17.880
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, you got too many. So you're like, I love everything

336
00:42:21.420 --> 00:42:22.200
Are the ones

337
00:42:23.370 --> 00:42:26.940
Phillip Roe: I think that the first one. I'm not. I'm going to pick them up.

338
00:42:27.540 --> 00:42:30.300
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, cool. And then

339
00:42:34.200 --> 00:42:38.130
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah. Do you want them on these ones that have four because that'll be a decider really

340
00:42:48.090 --> 00:42:48.510
Blockstack Meeting: What do you think

341
00:42:54.690 --> 00:43:00.810
Phillip Roe: This, this, the contributing guide them for good cook, have repost that something that we have to

342
00:43:01.860 --> 00:43:04.140
Phillip Roe: Make it happen. But it's just one one, isn't it.

343
00:43:04.980 --> 00:43:05.490
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah. It's why

344
00:43:06.510 --> 00:43:08.040
Blockstack Meeting: Because it's something that could be done.

345
00:43:09.030 --> 00:43:09.480
Phillip Roe: So, but

346
00:43:10.620 --> 00:43:17.940
Phillip Roe: I will maintain that. And then the proposal new version of mining will be a much more complicated so that you can take that out.

347
00:43:18.720 --> 00:43:24.210
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, so you got 123. There you go. Okay, so there's our final vote here. So the

348
00:43:25.800 --> 00:43:27.930
Blockstack Meeting: Years. I think I can underline right

349
00:43:29.100 --> 00:43:29.520
Blockstack Meeting: Highlight

350
00:43:31.470 --> 00:43:34.050
Blockstack Meeting: So we're going to talk to, for sure.

351
00:43:35.340 --> 00:43:39.180
Blockstack Meeting: And Sir a close. Third, this one here.

352
00:43:40.620 --> 00:43:43.440
Blockstack Meeting: Right. All right, I can, yes.

353
00:43:48.120 --> 00:43:48.630
Blockstack Meeting: No problem.

354
00:43:51.780 --> 00:43:56.730
Blockstack Meeting: I know for this call. That's what I wanted to make sure we got through is to figure out a top two or three

355
00:43:58.110 --> 00:44:01.320
Blockstack Meeting: To go through the next steps for doing the grant proposal itself.

356
00:44:03.570 --> 00:44:16.740
Blockstack Meeting: The italic one here for those who are here at that point, I put it in italics, because it was something that was discussed some of it could be done more quickly and it has a more definitive ending. So, could be a good tester.

357
00:44:18.690 --> 00:44:19.920
Blockstack Meeting: All I that's a comment here.

358
00:44:33.840 --> 00:44:42.090
Blockstack Meeting: Okay. Cool. Any other last thoughts on on any of this or do you want to make, like, oh, we need to do this one more last last ditch.

359
00:44:43.980 --> 00:44:46.800
Blockstack Meeting: Promoting certain ones that you're really interested in

360
00:44:52.920 --> 00:44:53.580
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, cool.

361
00:44:55.860 --> 00:45:02.730
Blockstack Meeting: Sounds like we are good to go. Then and Jenny is looking at it right now. Okay, good. That's good.

362
00:45:04.080 --> 00:45:12.930
Blockstack Meeting: So they know from what she was saying. Just make sure, go back to this quarter posts there make sure we got everything she wanted to get done sorting out here.

363
00:45:15.420 --> 00:45:16.140
Blockstack Meeting: The

364
00:45:17.760 --> 00:45:18.870
Blockstack Meeting: Two or three

365
00:45:21.330 --> 00:45:25.950
Blockstack Meeting: Each one of those better the media. Yep. That's good. And she says she'll take the lead going forward.

366
00:45:27.060 --> 00:45:32.220
Blockstack Meeting: For your outline and then get a draft proposal review by the 26

367
00:45:33.450 --> 00:45:37.320
Blockstack Meeting: That's where, that's that row. Is there anything else anyone wanted to add or if

368
00:45:38.370 --> 00:45:40.860
Blockstack Meeting: Brittany Is there anything else, your dad. After listening in.

369
00:45:43.740 --> 00:45:47.490
brittany: This was a productive call i think you know the next steps.

370
00:45:48.570 --> 00:45:59.730
brittany: Are about kind of drafting the proposal and other Jenny is kind of take it on as a volunteer. But if other people want to be more involved. I think she's very open and encouraging or that so that

371
00:46:00.810 --> 00:46:09.240
brittany: This is like a Community initiative. This is the community and everyone's input is really valuable, but like getting it that last 20% over the line, I think, is the

372
00:46:10.200 --> 00:46:21.150
brittany: key piece. So yeah, if you want to get more involved with that just message in the chat or link up with Jenny, because I know she's kind of helping lead the charge right now.

373
00:46:22.860 --> 00:46:23.250
Blockstack Meeting: Perfect.

374
00:46:24.780 --> 00:46:39.180
Blockstack Meeting: Well, it sounds good. Well, I guess with that is a where we need to get to end the meeting. So thank you everybody for joining today and keeping everything moving with this grant proposal looking forward to getting into the review process at this next foundation

375
00:46:42.060 --> 00:46:42.270
brittany: Thanks.

376
00:46:43.650 --> 00:46:43.950
Blockstack Meeting: Rob

377
00:46:44.970 --> 00:46:45.300
Juliet Oberding: Okay.

378
00:46:46.710 --> 00:46:47.700
Juliet Oberding: Welcome. Bye.

379
00:46:48.720 --> 00:46:49.260
Jason Schrader: Everybody

380
00:46:49.680 --> 00:46:52.860
Phillip Roe: Have a good weekend. Bye. Take care.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
