# 20200924 Governance Working Group Call 24

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:00.570 --> 00:00:19.440
Jenny Mith: Hey everybody, and welcome to the stocks governance working group meeting. Today is Thursday, September 24 and it is just after noon PST 9am PST and 5pm for those of us in London, which is just me.

2
00:00:20.850 --> 00:00:29.280
Jenny Mith: And we've got a bit of a smaller group today. So we kind of agreed that we wouldn't be able to, we wouldn't have any forum for

3
00:00:29.910 --> 00:00:37.860
Jenny Mith: Decision making, or anything, but we thought it would be worth going over some short updates and and also put an idea out there.

4
00:00:38.370 --> 00:00:46.020
Jenny Mith: to incentivize more folks to get on the next call so that we can start making some of those decisions. And so I will start at

5
00:00:46.500 --> 00:00:58.380
Jenny Mith: Because I know this has been on on everyone's minds on the grant proposal actually haven't done that much work in terms of revising or updating the material I think based on the last

6
00:00:58.800 --> 00:01:12.330
Jenny Mith: meeting that we had. There aren't a ton of changes. We wanted to make what I think does need work is the bit on the guy hub in boxes proposal and like I mentioned in discord. I had a productive call with Jude.

7
00:01:13.170 --> 00:01:28.140
Jenny Mith: On how to structure the project management of that particular project. Namely, we want to get an engineer from the PVC team involved to at least check in with certain teams and on their progress so that

8
00:01:28.680 --> 00:01:34.920
Jenny Mith: Whatever is produced from that particular project is something that BBC could realistically adopt.

9
00:01:36.480 --> 00:01:47.160
Jenny Mith: And yeah, so rather than applying this sort of bounty or like Hackathon type of framework. It's a little more of a dude I forget what you were calling it but it's like when

10
00:01:48.240 --> 00:01:52.830
Jenny Mith: Governments bid for projects. What was the term your you. What was the phrase, you're using

11
00:01:53.340 --> 00:01:55.080
Jenny Mith: Procurement. Yes. Yeah.

12
00:01:55.890 --> 00:02:10.560
Jenny Mith: Or like a procurement process, which I think makes a lot of sense. And so I can actually, I can update that in writing. What is blocking me at the moment is I sort of put my asks from the engineering team on hold, given that this is a really busy week

13
00:02:10.920 --> 00:02:14.640
Jenny Mith: For test it. I have it on my calendar to drop that in.

14
00:02:14.790 --> 00:02:20.730
Jenny Mith: Some asks, but I basically need approval from the engineering team that this is something that we can take on and

15
00:02:21.540 --> 00:02:38.430
Jenny Mith: Approval that someone from the engineering team can actually supervise this work, which I I'm pretty confident we can get. But yeah, that asked has just been put on hold for a week or so, but it is the last thing that sort of holding up the governance.

16
00:02:39.750 --> 00:02:44.490
Jenny Mith: Or the grant proposal. So once I get decisions and answers on that and

17
00:02:45.180 --> 00:02:56.490
Jenny Mith: Once you have some time to put the design doc together or another engineer has some time to put the design doc together. I think we would be ready to submit my goal is really to submit it by next week, so

18
00:02:56.910 --> 00:03:06.300
Jenny Mith: Everyone can keep an eye out for that progress in the discord chats and obviously you're all welcome to plug in with feedback yourself in the doc.

19
00:03:08.370 --> 00:03:09.360
Jenny Mith: That's my update

20
00:03:11.160 --> 00:03:17.040
Jenny Mith: Jason, did you have anything you want to say on the the work you've been doing with the agenda and other things.

21
00:03:18.150 --> 00:03:19.440
Jason Schrader: Sure. So last

22
00:03:19.440 --> 00:03:31.170
Jason Schrader: Week. You know, I kind of threw a comment into the last agenda that talked about making the agenda, much more general and kind of taking each of the discussion items and

23
00:03:31.500 --> 00:03:40.380
Jason Schrader: The items that we use to list out in the agendas back to the issues and that way we can get a little more involved with them and start getting them closed out and addressed.

24
00:03:40.920 --> 00:03:47.910
Jason Schrader: So with that, right after this call. I am planning to submit a pull request that will have an issue template.

25
00:03:48.390 --> 00:03:58.380
Jason Schrader: That's very generic and the main goal is that instead of listing out all of the action items within the agenda will instead just go straight to that label for the issues.

26
00:03:58.740 --> 00:04:13.620
Jason Schrader: And we can continue to use labels and other ways is a better way to manage the topics but it's, it should reduce some of the redundant work and make it much easier to create agendas in the future as far as that goes, I don't have any blockers at this time. So I think that's it for me.

27
00:04:17.460 --> 00:04:19.020
Jason Schrader: Well, you

28
00:04:19.080 --> 00:04:27.930
Jenny Mith: And I know I know Ryan You're here to moderate a very small meeting, but if you have any updates, please feel free to share and Jude. Same goes for you.

29
00:04:30.180 --> 00:04:40.620
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, can give an update, just a bike when doing calls for different for the grants program is to call us with different app and stuff like that move things forward. So it's keeping on keeping on looking forward to seeing the world from the gardens.

30
00:04:45.270 --> 00:04:56.790
Jude Nelson: That much for me the Krypton release is imminent. So, and working primarily on that but sub 000 is now under master with the changes recommended by the governance group and by the

31
00:04:58.140 --> 00:05:04.410
Jude Nelson: End by PVC surrendering and see on the technical steering committee so all the documentation is not linked to that.

32
00:05:05.820 --> 00:05:06.030
Jude Nelson: And

33
00:05:06.810 --> 00:05:07.590
Jenny Mith: That's a great update

34
00:05:09.570 --> 00:05:09.990
Jenny Mith: Okay.

35
00:05:11.010 --> 00:05:16.890
Jenny Mith: See that's leading of this call, we established that this would be a fairly short one, since we don't have a ton of people on

36
00:05:17.490 --> 00:05:24.660
Jenny Mith: The idea that we wanted to throw out is that for our next meeting. Perhaps we could have something a little more social.

37
00:05:25.320 --> 00:05:38.820
Jenny Mith: By everyone's some coffee cards and have everyone show with their coffee and pastries to just simulate the feeling of having an actual working group meeting and and I think that we all have been craving, the more social aspect of

38
00:05:40.080 --> 00:05:50.220
Jenny Mith: Working together. So our next meeting should be scheduled for two weeks from now, but I'm you know I'm flexible in terms of like having it next week just

39
00:05:50.700 --> 00:05:56.190
Jenny Mith: Because we didn't have a huge one this week, or we can keep it two weeks from now I

40
00:05:56.700 --> 00:06:04.860
Jenny Mith: Totally am sorry for making mistake of not duplicating the meaning from a couple of weeks ago and only putting it on my calendar promise I won't do that this time around.

41
00:06:05.370 --> 00:06:13.890
Jenny Mith: And but yeah for the next meeting. Whenever we decide to do it either next week or the week after. And let's make it a fun and social one

42
00:06:14.250 --> 00:06:20.490
Jenny Mith: Will pay for some coffee and pastries and everyone should have a sufficient amount of time to

43
00:06:20.880 --> 00:06:30.210
Jenny Mith: get updated on the content, we've been discussing and come prepared with their ideas because I know I saw a comment from Riga about something he wanted to raise with the governance group as well about

44
00:06:30.660 --> 00:06:40.050
Jenny Mith: Making a specific decision on off chain names or something. And he's not here today. So I'd like to give folks like Rieger a chance to tune in as well.

45
00:06:42.570 --> 00:06:46.170
Ryan Arndt: I've made the mistake before to Jay that duplicating on my own calendar thing. So I feel like

46
00:06:47.790 --> 00:06:51.870
Jenny Mith: Everything is. All right. Any final updates everyone

47
00:06:54.720 --> 00:07:06.090
Jason Schrader: Know that's that's it on my side and just thanks everyone for being here. Good to see you and Jude. Thanks for all the hard work. I've been watching and following along, and wow we're, we're almost to that next phase. I'm excited.

48
00:07:07.620 --> 00:07:08.160
Jenny Mith: Thanks you.

49
00:07:09.420 --> 00:07:10.680
Ryan Arndt: Know, thanks to

50
00:07:12.090 --> 00:07:12.510
Ryan Arndt: Everyone

51
00:07:13.380 --> 00:07:14.820
Jenny Mith: Alright see everyone later.

52
00:07:15.540 --> 00:07:15.780
Ryan Arndt: All right.

53
00:07:16.440 --> 00:07:16.890
Everyone

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
