# 20201217 Governance Working Group Call 30

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:01.680 --> 00:00:17.220
Jenny: Okay. Hi, everyone. Today is Thursday, December 17 2020 it's about 11 minutes past 12pm Eastern time, and this is working group called number 30 and we're on with the governance Working Group has everybody doing

2
00:00:19.980 --> 00:00:21.510
Ryan Arndt: Cheesy crackers.

3
00:00:22.200 --> 00:00:22.560
Okay.

4
00:00:26.190 --> 00:00:40.560
Jenny: Alright, so I am on with Jason Ryan Sean and Harold and we will start off by going through our stand ups. Just some quick updates. I'm actually first. So on my screen. So I'll go ahead and go first.

5
00:00:42.180 --> 00:00:47.280
Jenny: So, you know, yeah, I think I mentioned this on our previous call that we've been working on.

6
00:00:47.700 --> 00:00:56.130
Jenny: This discord moderation bots. We have since submitted a grant application for that and gotten it approved. So that's really exciting and

7
00:00:56.460 --> 00:01:10.530
Jenny: I think some of you are actually in the test server. So now that the grant has been approved, we can probably start testing in earnest. We're waiting for the contractual stuff behind the scenes, but

8
00:01:11.760 --> 00:01:23.010
Jenny: Our dev THERE, JONATHAN has put together a video walking through the bot. I think we've already gotten some pretty comprehensive feedback from hurry. So I think the next step is to actually just test some

9
00:01:24.270 --> 00:01:31.410
Jenny: test scenarios and situations to see how well the bottle would hold up in our actual server because our actual server as you all know, has

10
00:01:32.430 --> 00:01:41.070
Jenny: Over 3000 members and it's quite a bit more active. And so we want to stress test the bot to make sure that it works in that kind of environment, but

11
00:01:41.670 --> 00:01:49.290
Jenny: Yeah, that that was probably the biggest thing I worked on and it's really exciting because it's just another win and another step forward for

12
00:01:49.590 --> 00:02:01.050
Jenny: decentralization, so if anyone has any questions about that. I'm happy to answer them later in the call. And if you're not in the test server for that moderation, but let me know and I can add you

13
00:02:04.560 --> 00:02:18.810
Jenny: All right, no blockers. I always forget to do these follow up questions no blockers and over the next few weeks, we're going to test it and prepare it for deployment by January 14 which is the main at launch date.

14
00:02:21.060 --> 00:02:24.660
Jenny: Okay. On to Jason, Jason, do you have a stand up, you'd like share

15
00:02:26.520 --> 00:02:29.670
Jason Schrader: Yeah, just a quick update on my end I will go ahead

16
00:02:29.670 --> 00:02:37.470
Jason Schrader: And share the link to the grant that I file that has been approved and actually just paid out so we should be

17
00:02:38.190 --> 00:02:40.710
Jason Schrader: Moving into the actual start of the project, which is

18
00:02:41.250 --> 00:02:54.720
Jason Schrader: Really exciting and then I did create a project board and it showed that in the chat as well. So I'm just going to track my progress here based on the issues in the PM repository, and probably starting Monday.

19
00:02:55.230 --> 00:03:03.150
Jason Schrader: I think it's going to be a good day we'll start to see a whole bunch of new issues created as I'm going to fill in the blanks and see. But I tried to at least grab everything that

20
00:03:03.540 --> 00:03:10.830
Jason Schrader: Was already there and kind of included as part of this grant. And then inside of each issue, it'll show that it's linked to a project.

21
00:03:11.160 --> 00:03:21.000
Jason Schrader: So, if we see it linked to this, then we know that something I'm working on still definitely anybody's welcome to comment. Welcome to create issues and I'm happy to add them to the board just as something related to that.

22
00:03:21.750 --> 00:03:25.350
Jason Schrader: And yeah, so this will be the main place to track progress. Once we get started.

23
00:03:26.580 --> 00:03:31.830
Jason Schrader: Other than that, though I have no blockers, and that's going to be what I'll be working on for the next two weeks.

24
00:03:34.170 --> 00:03:36.840
Jenny: Well, thanks. He said, this is really great. And thank you for bringing it

25
00:03:37.020 --> 00:03:40.320
Jenny: To a project boards that we can easily follow the work you're doing.

26
00:03:43.380 --> 00:03:45.390
Jenny: And Ryan, do you like to go next.

27
00:03:45.810 --> 00:03:47.430
Ryan Arndt: Sure. So I've got

28
00:03:47.490 --> 00:03:51.510
Ryan Arndt: A GRANT up that a wishlist one so that's

29
00:03:51.750 --> 00:03:58.200
Ryan Arndt: What I've been doing most of that is thinking of things like, oh, look at this brief wishlist grant, we've been getting the grand.io website set up so

30
00:03:58.830 --> 00:04:08.430
Ryan Arndt: Running that in the background. Now, so it's live, but not public, kind of thing, but if anyone here wants to test that with us. Once we get to the next step. That would be awesome.

31
00:04:09.750 --> 00:04:17.460
Ryan Arndt: So I can share that in the governance group on this card when that's time and planning to go live with that time with me net

32
00:04:18.360 --> 00:04:34.110
Ryan Arndt: So that's where that's at. And then the Wisconsin working on is one for actually was what that to own council meeting and then talking to her rainy together made me realize that people need more support on understanding

33
00:04:35.280 --> 00:04:43.590
Ryan Arndt: Things from the front end who are completely new because when I was me with the two opposing counsel with with Harold there. I did had to run through like do a

34
00:04:44.730 --> 00:04:49.590
Ryan Arndt: Demo and essentially just to help explain decentralization and all sorts of different concepts.

35
00:04:50.640 --> 00:04:58.230
Ryan Arndt: So I've got a grant for that specifically for people who are working with enterprise customers like block survey and private could do

36
00:04:58.740 --> 00:05:06.330
Ryan Arndt: But it could be used for anything as can be rewritten remix for videos so people could put their, their logos on it. And this do but they want to do.

37
00:05:07.170 --> 00:05:17.310
Ryan Arndt: That then the other one I was thinking of which can be really helpful is a grant a wish list grant to get a calendar. It's built like a shared calendar that works on with our block stack IDs.

38
00:05:19.020 --> 00:05:26.220
Ryan Arndt: So that's what I was thinking, oh, so are we getting that and then updating the other one in the next two weeks and get the website done before.

39
00:05:26.670 --> 00:05:41.430
Ryan Arndt: At foundation is often the 23rd to the fourth themselves around helping with the wallet support side of things. So if you need help with that, it's totally okay to ping me and I'm sure I'll respond. Anyway, so it's part of working community, which is kind of

40
00:05:42.570 --> 00:05:55.050
Ryan Arndt: Our round. So, but, yeah, that's where things are at for me. No blockers at this time. But yeah, there's anyone who wants to help check things over with Clinton Iowa and times where to go. That'd be really appreciate

41
00:05:57.180 --> 00:06:10.950
Jenny: Thanks, Ryan, which on your next. And I realized this is your first time it's on a governance working group call. So, if you don't mind also introducing yourself and giving us some background on your experience the community and anything else.

42
00:06:13.110 --> 00:06:13.410
Sean: Yeah.

43
00:06:13.500 --> 00:06:14.130
Sean: Thanks, Jen.

44
00:06:15.090 --> 00:06:28.350
Sean: I mean, I'm here, exploring opportunities and trying to build relationships, there also seems to be some really interesting work that could be done. And so I'm learning about how I might be able to do that work.

45
00:06:29.820 --> 00:06:36.930
Sean: I'll try to be quick. I'm 41 years old I graduated with physics back in 2001

46
00:06:37.950 --> 00:06:40.890
Sean: And worked in the government for 1213 years

47
00:06:42.390 --> 00:06:45.090
Sean: Was lucky Raytheon, and then a beltway bandit.

48
00:06:46.110 --> 00:06:49.290
Sean: In Washington, DC. When independent

49
00:06:50.730 --> 00:07:06.000
Sean: In 2013 sounded the largest active technical network in Washington DC area data community DC in 2012 which I used to network and get business and clients that way.

50
00:07:09.630 --> 00:07:13.830
Sean: My wife's through data events, our first date. We called it a data date.

51
00:07:16.290 --> 00:07:22.350
Sean: We had a kid and then she got into Y Combinator. I've came out to San Francisco and we had another kid.

52
00:07:24.810 --> 00:07:33.750
Sean: I've been working on Mike in my company and my consulting in general insolence. I've been focusing on bringing agency to

53
00:07:35.520 --> 00:07:50.700
Sean: high skilled gig workers or consultants. There's an interesting problem to get companies off the ground where there's a lot of really skilled work. But those companies can't afford it.

54
00:07:51.750 --> 00:08:00.930
Sean: They're able to trade for it through creative freedom IP licensing or and of course typical equity and cash but

55
00:08:02.070 --> 00:08:06.780
Sean: The contract vehicle to take advantage of those things.

56
00:08:08.280 --> 00:08:22.560
Sean: Didn't exist. And so there's this interesting problem when you're trying to build something when you make deals and then you get up to this upper level and the investors don't want to have people on the cap table and it creates this this problem.

57
00:08:26.040 --> 00:08:33.060
Sean: To be able to track all these sorts of things led me into the defined space and brought me to block stuck.

58
00:08:35.250 --> 00:08:41.700
Sean: I see these technologies as a way to keep track of.

59
00:08:42.870 --> 00:08:59.370
Sean: Licenses royalties relationships, without the headache that the lawyers are always complaining about. But it could also be a lot of other things. It could be a marketplace for high skilled workers to put their work.

60
00:09:00.960 --> 00:09:19.740
Sean: And one of them is liquid democracy, which is kind of the same basic tech is just applied a little different. And I think that's why I'm here. So there's my understanding that there's a board seat available community board seat and there were some

61
00:09:20.760 --> 00:09:24.480
Sean: Applications that were put in for it, but

62
00:09:26.040 --> 00:09:33.420
Sean: I believe only to the people that were nominated even knew about it. I'm remembering the posts that was sent out by

63
00:09:35.940 --> 00:09:42.660
Sean: By by specs governance. So, what, what was her name that wrote it, it's not you, Jenny It's Brittany.

64
00:09:45.870 --> 00:09:46.260
Sean: And

65
00:09:47.670 --> 00:09:59.910
Sean: So that's not really the representation that they wanted. And this is what's interesting is that your structure is similar to a structure that we created at data community DC. We were a

66
00:10:00.870 --> 00:10:12.720
Sean: Non stock corporation out of Virginia with 501 C three federal nonprofit status and we had our board organized in a way where there was a community representatives.

67
00:10:13.860 --> 00:10:17.580
Sean: Now, we were a little bit smaller. You know, they were

68
00:10:19.020 --> 00:10:24.780
Sean: You know those communities had a few thousand people that were represented, but the

69
00:10:26.280 --> 00:10:44.010
Sean: Expectations of that community were different. You guys are trying to directly interface with them. Ask them questions, understand their point of view, have them participate and this is a classic nonprofit challenge, and I believe liquid democracy can maybe address some of it and

70
00:10:45.630 --> 00:10:48.570
Sean: Ryan was kind enough to point me towards the

71
00:10:51.060 --> 00:11:04.200
Sean: The grants suspect grants and I'm learning about that, that the first time he said about it. I had some ideas. And I was like, Oh, well, it's $5,000. I don't know if we can build what we're talking about. For $5,000

72
00:11:05.370 --> 00:11:10.500
Sean: And then you'd have to get volunteers organized to do it, but apparently

73
00:11:11.550 --> 00:11:18.060
Sean: There's more money than than that and you can structure an ongoing project and $5,000 increments.

74
00:11:19.560 --> 00:11:29.430
Sean: I've started pulling some of that information together and I'm here to understand in more detail and and make sure that you know my work is going in the right direction.

75
00:11:34.020 --> 00:11:44.400
Jenny: Awesome, thank you so much for that action Sean and for sharing a little more about your work. It definitely sounds interesting. And I'm sure we'll have time on this call to open it up for even more discussion.

76
00:11:45.720 --> 00:11:46.740
Jenny: If you're joining us

77
00:11:47.580 --> 00:11:50.190
Sean: Yeah. Thanks for having me. Thanks, Ryan for the invite.

78
00:11:52.650 --> 00:11:57.750
Ryan Arndt: No problem. When I heard that you had background and setting up boards and stuff. I was like, You gotta, you gotta go.

79
00:12:00.570 --> 00:12:01.740
Sean: Yeah, those, those things.

80
00:12:03.360 --> 00:12:04.950
Sean: Yes. Yes. Thank you.

81
00:12:06.390 --> 00:12:14.280
Jenny: Alright, on to our final stand up, Harold. Would you like to share what you've been working recently working on. Yes, thank you.

82
00:12:15.840 --> 00:12:17.130
Jenny: Pleasure to have you shown

83
00:12:17.760 --> 00:12:22.530
Harold Davis: Excited to see everybody progress on that undergrads. Congratulations, everybody.

84
00:12:23.940 --> 00:12:31.230
Harold Davis: Yeah quicksand from my side is quick overlap with Ryan I think around the time of our last meeting.

85
00:12:32.250 --> 00:12:40.650
Harold Davis: was kind enough to join us at the two a month and council and give me much needed support on, you know, describing exactly what the grant.

86
00:12:41.520 --> 00:12:53.400
Harold Davis: program consists of to the Council's that there's clarity, there also we got a few things you know sorted out in terms of what we plan to do for our education prototype.

87
00:12:54.510 --> 00:13:01.140
Harold Davis: You want to combine, you know, indigenous modes and you know esteem education.

88
00:13:03.210 --> 00:13:09.780
Harold Davis: With you know indigenous dialogue for for St. Geez, and and and show how web three can help sustain that.

89
00:13:10.920 --> 00:13:13.470
Harold Davis: You know, and bring it into, you know,

90
00:13:14.940 --> 00:13:17.460
Harold Davis: A new high data new high data value.

91
00:13:18.510 --> 00:13:30.960
Harold Davis: New high value data model. And so, yeah, thank you coming again for the much needed support a Ryan and we should be meeting with Ronnie. Gosh, soon from

92
00:13:31.560 --> 00:13:49.560
Harold Davis: The June of justice research project. And so there's exciting stuff going on there. I was also able to meet with or have a correspondence with Amy Zhang of policy kit and that should be, you know, maybe touch on a little bit more but that should help us.

93
00:13:50.640 --> 00:14:02.370
Harold Davis: For, you know, any type of realistic roadmap for the voting mechanism, as you know, she's the founder of policy kid, and she seemed very eager to help anybody who's, who's interested in using the platform.

94
00:14:02.790 --> 00:14:10.830
Harold Davis: Was also able to have some discussion with free girl who you know is not as familiar with the discord bridge.

95
00:14:11.850 --> 00:14:23.370
Harold Davis: That is available through his ally chat, but does see the possibilities for, you know, leveraging stacks off and and you know stacks storage storage.

96
00:14:23.970 --> 00:14:38.100
Harold Davis: For voting mechanism efforts. So yeah, it's a brief stand up. There's, there's no blockers that I can speak of for now for any of the voting mechanism and stuff.

97
00:14:39.600 --> 00:14:45.300
Harold Davis: I'm excited to put on a little bit of the tinkering. I've done a little bit later. So, yeah.

98
00:14:46.380 --> 00:14:47.370
Harold Davis: Yeah, thank you can

99
00:14:50.490 --> 00:14:51.210
Jenny: Thanks, Harold.

100
00:14:52.410 --> 00:15:01.680
Jenny: Okay. So that does it for our stand ups I know Brittany isn't here, but Brian, would you like to share any foundation updates.

101
00:15:02.820 --> 00:15:08.520
Ryan Arndt: Sure. So a lot of my, what kind of working on to. But yeah, it's the main one I think is getting granted I O set up.

102
00:15:09.600 --> 00:15:17.670
Ryan Arndt: Then the mining challenges going on and get it split. There's a million stacks or be split between the winners have different groups.

103
00:15:18.180 --> 00:15:27.990
Ryan Arndt: So that would be really great people in there and then the community board seat that Sean was talking about the posters up in there. There's a conversation and community general. I don't know if y'all saw that, but

104
00:15:29.040 --> 00:15:41.100
Ryan Arndt: That was why that came back up again, which is good. It should end on to build out support that come to fruition and other foundations, all of that, making sure that the community has a voice as should be so

105
00:15:42.300 --> 00:15:54.420
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, that's pretty much it for now we're heading into the holidays think things are a little bit quieter. But then as soon as we get back it's, you know, may not launch. So not so quiet that. So what's going on. I'm sure as you know today.

106
00:15:57.390 --> 00:16:02.310
Jenny: Yeah, definitely. I feel like I will, we will take some time on this call to talk about

107
00:16:03.390 --> 00:16:06.900
Jenny: Today, I guess, wrap things up for 2021 and prepare ourselves for

108
00:16:09.270 --> 00:16:17.550
Jenny: What's coming up in 2021 specifically on January 14 and we can talk about that later. So why don't we go into

109
00:16:18.360 --> 00:16:19.440
Jenny: action items.

110
00:16:19.500 --> 00:16:27.810
Jason Schrader: And before we do that real quick. One thing I started thinking back about when this community worse. The question came back up was, how did we

111
00:16:27.840 --> 00:16:40.650
Jason Schrader: Miss the issue like just as something to discuss. So one thing I wanted to try. Real quick, and I know we've just got you here, Ryan. But under this next foundation updates. There are a few issues that are labeled kinda like sex foundation issues.

112
00:16:41.310 --> 00:16:50.100
Jason Schrader: So we should probably pop into these just as part of our standard procedure and that at least puts. There we go. We have the community board seat and of course the open call for board nominations

113
00:16:50.880 --> 00:17:04.290
Jason Schrader: That way they just kind of get back into our regular flow, especially starting out more, but I don't know. Is there anything you'd like to add on those two subjects are just at least, at least we got him seeing this week, I'll leave that part of the right

114
00:17:04.560 --> 00:17:17.580
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, no, it's like they're back up in the forum again like Britney me to do post some of the Sean and commented on there but there it is there. But yeah, so that just getting them reinvigorated we really good, it's been

115
00:17:18.420 --> 00:17:26.220
Ryan Arndt: A while, I think, was June and then the one that Dan had brought up in community general was like may 26 or something. So, yeah.

116
00:17:27.240 --> 00:17:39.930
Jason Schrader: Yeah, yeah, I know it's. It was kind of an ongoing conversation right before the foundation was formed. And I think we just kind of had it drop off after that. But if we just add this to our kind of standard procedure of going through the agenda will make sure it gets on the

117
00:17:40.320 --> 00:17:42.600
Jason Schrader: On the ticket each time and we can talk about

118
00:17:43.140 --> 00:17:43.860
Jason Schrader: Cool, yeah.

119
00:17:44.130 --> 00:17:44.670
Ryan Arndt: Sounds good.

120
00:17:45.270 --> 00:17:48.210
Jenny: Point. Thanks, Jason, that's probably how he missed it.

121
00:17:49.800 --> 00:17:51.210
Jason Schrader: It's always the little things.

122
00:17:53.130 --> 00:17:54.900
Ryan Arndt: Right and

123
00:17:55.320 --> 00:17:56.790
Jenny: So why don't we go into action items.

124
00:17:57.510 --> 00:18:03.300
Jenny: I know. So the reason I said that this will probably go fairly quickly today is because I know Jason you're working on.

125
00:18:03.780 --> 00:18:14.460
Jenny: And figuring out a better standard operating procedure, procedure for this, but we can still go through all this. And I actually all of them are assigned to you, except for one so we can go through them quickly.

126
00:18:16.290 --> 00:18:19.890
Jason Schrader: Yeah, so I'll go ahead and take the lead on that. So what we're going through here.

127
00:18:19.890 --> 00:18:28.230
Jason Schrader: Is just some basic action items that I will be working toward as far as part of my grant and towards this project. So there's a few things to fix.

128
00:18:28.590 --> 00:18:35.340
Jason Schrader: With the issue templates which come up whenever we filed a new issue. I think I had some naming issues where we weren't seeing all the different options.

129
00:18:36.510 --> 00:18:45.630
Jason Schrader: So this one should be a quick fix, but a lot of this. I put off so I can have a good block of time to really visit it from a big picture perspective. And that's what the grant is definitely going to help me do

130
00:18:46.410 --> 00:18:50.700
Jason Schrader: So this one, along with what else do we have on the list here we've got

131
00:18:51.300 --> 00:19:04.830
Jason Schrader: Some broken document links on docs defy so those two for sure are going to be kind of the first thing that I go for as part of milestone one I wanted to fix the errors. And then of course work. Work backwards and make the procedures easier and update the data.

132
00:19:06.450 --> 00:19:14.040
Jason Schrader: So yeah, if anybody needs any details on those, feel free to reach out to me. But those are definitely under my, my view.

133
00:19:14.610 --> 00:19:27.690
Jason Schrader: And then the collaboration with meta Gov. That one is actually probably more relevant to the main group. I don't have very many updates on this. Do you have anything in this regard hair.

134
00:19:32.130 --> 00:19:32.880
Harold Davis: No, no.

135
00:19:33.510 --> 00:19:42.570
Harold Davis: You know there is a some overlap with with meta gov and policy kit meta gov focuses more on you know the the blockchain stuff.

136
00:19:43.470 --> 00:19:56.610
Harold Davis: So there's progress on it in that we are working with with policy kicks in, in some way, already, so half of half of a half of this is underway already but medical of is still interesting

137
00:19:57.630 --> 00:20:09.690
Harold Davis: Along with policy Primavera is is involved with with that project. So yeah, it'd be interesting to have some discussion on it on the folks are interested

138
00:20:11.640 --> 00:20:18.720
Jason Schrader: Do you think we should move this just to a discussion item with the meetings and maybe link it to the issue for the voting mechanism.

139
00:20:19.260 --> 00:20:20.940
Harold Davis: Yeah yeah that'd be that'd be great.

140
00:20:21.030 --> 00:20:22.920
Jason Schrader: Okay, I can, I can take care of that.

141
00:20:25.470 --> 00:20:26.850
Jenny: Right, thanks, Jason.

142
00:20:28.500 --> 00:20:42.270
Jenny: And the other question I had was for these issues that you're going to be working on Jason is part of your block of time. Should we just attach a label to it says like Jason's grant or something like that, just so that people know

143
00:20:44.340 --> 00:20:57.900
Jason Schrader: Yeah, I was actually expecting the the project to show up under that projects tab at the, at the very least, so I'm going to take a look into that. But I can add a I'll figure out some kind of some kind of label to add to them as well. That's fine. Okay.

144
00:20:58.860 --> 00:21:01.620
Jenny: Thanks. I think we can move on to discretionary items.

145
00:21:08.430 --> 00:21:16.560
Jenny: Right, so we had I don't Juliet isn't here, but we had a grant project management, Harold. I know that you went into this a bit already but was there.

146
00:21:17.940 --> 00:21:27.270
Jenny: Any update that or is there an update, you'd like to share on like I think you mentioned that you're going to be putting progress on this on the on a project board.

147
00:21:30.060 --> 00:21:33.930
Harold Davis: Right, but it's there. I edited it, and as opposed to

148
00:21:34.980 --> 00:21:35.700
Harold Davis: A new comment.

149
00:21:36.750 --> 00:21:46.530
Harold Davis: And yeah, I mentioned a little bit of it here. There's, there's some links that they can get folks into what I've been into the last week's with with the tinkering.

150
00:21:48.000 --> 00:22:08.580
Harold Davis: And so I think oh I Chad. Actually, I was experiencing a problem with it earlier today, but I have tinkered with it in the past. And you know what's possible through this matrix client is a fairly, fairly polished client that they use for the community meetings, including, you know, a video.

151
00:22:10.200 --> 00:22:20.370
Harold Davis: You know widget or that they call it or attachment, but it's also just a basic chat client that I'm I figured it would work very nicely. Not just because

152
00:22:21.660 --> 00:22:28.770
Harold Davis: You know definitely because it has the discord bridge that policy kit is is is originally built for

153
00:22:29.790 --> 00:22:42.870
Harold Davis: So yeah, I was able to you know get started tinkering with the read me on the on the policy kit and get comfortable with with that as a non technical person but yeah I'm

154
00:22:43.620 --> 00:22:58.530
Harold Davis: happy to report that I was able to get correspondence with Amy and feel very comfortable with, with her help and free yourself as well for the chat side of things, he's he's offered to help in the past with, you know, some of the server side things there.

155
00:22:59.940 --> 00:23:00.930
Harold Davis: But yes, um,

156
00:23:02.160 --> 00:23:11.700
Harold Davis: Yeah. We also, I thought it was a good opportunity here to discuss begin the discussion on another testing approaches that are promised in the grant application.

157
00:23:12.690 --> 00:23:33.240
Harold Davis: I know that the desert. There's a lot of similarities between the, the, the work that you know yourself. Ginny and Russ and folks have been doing with with the community moderation and it may be you know overlap with that. And in terms of testing and as a voting mechanism.

158
00:23:34.500 --> 00:23:39.870
Harold Davis: Any other ideas I think Jude mentioned some some model that we may be able to use

159
00:23:41.160 --> 00:23:49.980
Harold Davis: But yeah, I'm interested in starting that discussion here and I'll be sure to add that here as well, or somewhere else, if it's, if it's a more visible.

160
00:23:52.260 --> 00:23:53.580
Jenny: Great Harold I

161
00:23:53.700 --> 00:23:55.650
Jenny: One question I had was

162
00:23:56.820 --> 00:24:01.860
Jenny: So I think originally in the grant application. One of the milestones was to have

163
00:24:02.310 --> 00:24:18.210
Jenny: All four voting mechanisms tested by the end of Q4, which is the end of this month are we going to update. Are we going to have to update that milestone and extended into January, I think that's probably fine. But we might I don't and Ryan, you might be able to speak to this. If we're not

164
00:24:19.560 --> 00:24:20.640
Jenny: If a grant

165
00:24:20.700 --> 00:24:28.410
Jenny: Applicant or recipient is at risk of not meeting an original milestone, what's the process for updating a milestone.

166
00:24:30.390 --> 00:24:35.760
Ryan Arndt: That would be like Rafi and nothing worse than that because she's like the Grants Committee, but grants program.

167
00:24:36.810 --> 00:24:43.380
Ryan Arndt: But so far, where things haven't met up. I don't think it's been like too hard and fast for anything so

168
00:24:45.300 --> 00:24:48.810
Jenny: Okay, so we can probably just add a comment and

169
00:24:49.110 --> 00:24:50.850
Jenny: Yeah, like there's like

170
00:24:50.910 --> 00:24:54.120
Ryan Arndt: Fried your head, one that he was doing, then he decided to do another one. And then we

171
00:24:55.350 --> 00:25:01.590
Ryan Arndt: Changed it, so he can move on to the other one. You really close that one. So stuff like that. And we've been flexible. I think so.

172
00:25:02.220 --> 00:25:02.520
Okay.

173
00:25:04.620 --> 00:25:13.080
Sean: So I know that I am hear more about the liquid democracy and community board. She thing, but I'm also

174
00:25:15.090 --> 00:25:21.990
Sean: Willing to, like, you know, help somebody on this process, you know, an exchange for learning.

175
00:25:22.590 --> 00:25:30.600
Sean: I'm just willing to recognize that while I've been senior developer in Python, and like TensorFlow and stuff like that. I'm just getting into blockchain.

176
00:25:31.350 --> 00:25:40.860
Sean: And if you need help testing or something if there's somebody that can like basically gives reasonable tasks. I'll go ahead and try and get them done but

177
00:25:41.850 --> 00:25:49.830
Sean: I don't want my inexperience to be a burden on anyone. I'll go take whatever lessons I need to before I jump in the middle, if I need to.

178
00:25:52.260 --> 00:25:57.840
Harold Davis: Thank you candy shop. Yeah, I'll definitely you know probably be reaching out as as a non technical person.

179
00:25:59.400 --> 00:26:00.630
Harold Davis: And yeah.

180
00:26:01.650 --> 00:26:10.020
Harold Davis: Especially because it seems like there's a lot of overlap with with what you're interested in bringing into the into the space. So thank you. Can you commit that offer

181
00:26:11.400 --> 00:26:11.790
Sean: Welcome

182
00:26:13.110 --> 00:26:16.050
Harold Davis: Yeah, and I think you can if agenda agenda for helping sort

183
00:26:16.050 --> 00:26:20.250
Harold Davis: That out. I do think that that extension would be would be smart.

184
00:26:21.390 --> 00:26:24.450
Harold Davis: But yes, um, are there any other any

185
00:26:25.830 --> 00:26:28.590
Harold Davis: Any, any discussion anybody wants to bring here about

186
00:26:29.640 --> 00:26:35.790
Harold Davis: Possible testing approaches. I know you'd mentioned one in the last meeting that I took note of. But, um,

187
00:26:37.500 --> 00:26:44.910
Harold Davis: Do you think that there's any overlap possible with the community moderation or near these these different things, or should we keep it separate.

188
00:26:46.650 --> 00:26:48.120
Jenny: Yeah, actually I think the

189
00:26:48.180 --> 00:26:56.820
Jenny: overlap with the community moderation is an interesting one. So I think that would probably give us the four mechanisms that where I should mention that

190
00:26:57.420 --> 00:27:06.270
Jenny: The voting mechanism that we have with the moderation bot is it sophisticated. So in terms of mechanisms that we've discussed, we have the formula.

191
00:27:06.630 --> 00:27:13.140
Jenny: That Jude and Pascal put forward and that takes into account the community members experience or

192
00:27:14.070 --> 00:27:21.210
Jenny: The length of time they spend within the community there's quadratic voting, which we've discussed a lot and

193
00:27:21.600 --> 00:27:31.170
Jenny: Is a big topic in this industry in general. So those are two that we might want to, well, we would definitely test the formula put forth by Jude and Pascal, we can test.

194
00:27:31.650 --> 00:27:46.290
Jenny: The quadratic voting mechanism. And I think you'd mentioned like also just testing, like a one vote per person to see how that would play out. And then for the the moderation bot Harold

195
00:27:47.130 --> 00:28:03.840
Jenny: We they're more conference. They're more like confirmations. So it's like a it's proportional to the size of the community that's actually participating. So while we have you know 3000 plus members in discord, we

196
00:28:05.490 --> 00:28:18.090
Jenny: Like let's say that there are 150 active members in the server. A week an active being members who post actively to public channels. So we would decide on a proportion of

197
00:28:19.200 --> 00:28:34.320
Jenny: That number of active people, how many votes would be needed to confirm an action. So if someone flagged a message if like a community manager at the in the beginning. Tier five the message and sending this message should be deleted.

198
00:28:35.790 --> 00:28:40.530
Jenny: Maybe that would need like four confirmations or something. So we haven't actually figured out

199
00:28:42.570 --> 00:28:49.530
Jenny: The exact numbers and and it feels at this point, it feels a little arbitrary, but yeah, that's where we're at with

200
00:28:49.530 --> 00:28:50.280
Sean: That and

201
00:28:50.670 --> 00:28:59.460
Jenny: We can we can use the box for voting issues as well. Like I hadn't thought about that as possible integration. That's something to consider. Yeah.

202
00:28:59.880 --> 00:29:00.240
Harold Davis: Okay.

203
00:29:00.330 --> 00:29:05.010
Sean: Yeah, that seems like a nice segue into the liquid democracy project because

204
00:29:06.390 --> 00:29:16.650
Sean: The way that it's the prototype is coded right now, if I understand correctly, it uses a bot in order to keep track of people's votes.

205
00:29:17.670 --> 00:29:26.820
Sean: And they can vote directly or they can actually delegate somebody else to hold their vote for them if they were to trust somebody with that expertise and it integrates with discord.

206
00:29:28.170 --> 00:29:30.420
Sean: So people would be able to

207
00:29:31.830 --> 00:29:37.950
Sean: People be able to to vote and then later on. They want to understand who voted on what why it's all recorded in the blockchain.

208
00:29:41.850 --> 00:29:43.710
Okay, interesting.

209
00:29:44.880 --> 00:29:46.260
Harold Davis: Yeah, that this

210
00:29:46.350 --> 00:29:52.440
Harold Davis: Seems like another potential thing to test it wouldn't hurt.

211
00:29:53.610 --> 00:29:57.420
Harold Davis: The, the process here as we as we extended into January.

212
00:29:58.440 --> 00:30:05.820
Harold Davis: Yeah, and any of your knee help there. Sean and how we can get that moving as a as a part of the discussion.

213
00:30:07.560 --> 00:30:13.500
Harold Davis: can wait seems to seems exciting and and Jenny. I see what you mean here about the, you know,

214
00:30:13.560 --> 00:30:15.450
Harold Davis: The still being in the early stages of the

215
00:30:16.500 --> 00:30:17.940
Harold Davis: Community moderation and

216
00:30:18.990 --> 00:30:25.740
Harold Davis: Still need to figure some things out, but maybe having some, you know, very limited capacity for

217
00:30:26.880 --> 00:30:31.950
Harold Davis: You know, very simple books, but just some, some of the

218
00:30:33.900 --> 00:30:37.050
Harold Davis: The mechanism around the Jude mentioned at these for

219
00:30:38.190 --> 00:30:39.390
Harold Davis: You know, the, the simple

220
00:30:40.860 --> 00:30:48.180
Harold Davis: You know, rent voting system may be something that we can get a router right away if anybody is interested in

221
00:30:49.530 --> 00:30:55.860
Harold Davis: Testing. I have been there's been a few a few different things tested already in so we just need the

222
00:30:57.810 --> 00:30:58.170
Harold Davis: Or the

223
00:31:01.050 --> 00:31:05.040
Jenny: Yeah, it sounds like to two more. Right. Yes.

224
00:31:05.640 --> 00:31:06.570
Harold Davis: So the

225
00:31:08.700 --> 00:31:15.960
Harold Davis: For the liquid democracy as well as some room for maybe some some some some coding

226
00:31:19.170 --> 00:31:22.920
Harold Davis: Whether it's the rank thing or the community map but

227
00:31:24.150 --> 00:31:29.910
Harold Davis: I'll keep my mind open and searching for other things that we can we can test out

228
00:31:32.100 --> 00:31:38.910
Harold Davis: So yeah, thank you. Thank you, Connie. So, um, any further discussion on this. I'll be sure to publish it here.

229
00:31:40.110 --> 00:31:40.710
Jenny: Thanks, Harold.

230
00:31:40.890 --> 00:31:42.870
Jenny: I was actually going to propose. So it sounds like

231
00:31:45.510 --> 00:31:57.240
Jenny: We might benefit from the three of us or more if if we needed putting our heads together during like a call either next week or or its beginning of January. If the holidays are

232
00:32:00.030 --> 00:32:03.060
Jenny: If you know everything if everyone's going offline for the holidays, but

233
00:32:04.770 --> 00:32:12.990
Jenny: We could probably benefit from just talking through and our work so far and like how we could potentially work together.

234
00:32:14.460 --> 00:32:24.750
Jenny: Like the I never thought about the bot possibly being a solution for voting. So that's interesting, and I think it's something that I would have to think through

235
00:32:25.320 --> 00:32:33.960
Jenny: In terms of like, you know what criteria and like what rules, we want to build into it, but I'm really open to that because you know we built it specifically for discord and hearing Sean say that

236
00:32:34.410 --> 00:32:43.680
Jenny: liquid democracy also integrates with discord is really exciting. So, and I can open up an issue for us to schedule an open discussion on that if

237
00:32:44.940 --> 00:32:46.680
Jenny: If that would be helpful. If not, then we

238
00:32:48.360 --> 00:32:54.990
Harold Davis: Know this sounds sounds like would be very helpful in yeah I'm excited to start these type of discussions.

239
00:32:56.100 --> 00:33:00.510
Harold Davis: There's a lot of overlap going on. So I think, I think it's necessary, and a lot of ways.

240
00:33:09.840 --> 00:33:13.470
Sean: Um, yeah, I mean, I just said hello to Harold on discord channel.

241
00:33:13.770 --> 00:33:15.930
Sean: So I could follow up. I think that was you Harold's

242
00:33:17.160 --> 00:33:18.480
Sean: Doesn't have your last name on there.

243
00:33:20.730 --> 00:33:23.370
Sean: Yeah, I'm just trying to find the right place to plug in

244
00:33:24.690 --> 00:33:29.160
Sean: I think there's interest in the words that I'm saying no. Now, what's the action.

245
00:33:30.450 --> 00:33:30.960
Sean: And

246
00:33:32.130 --> 00:33:39.570
Sean: You know, you got this. Is your organization, not mine. So I'm trying to figure out where the on ramp is, you know, do I

247
00:33:41.160 --> 00:33:55.860
Sean: Because part of the issue with the liquid democracy thing is it's actually another blockchain network. I don't know how you feel about that, you know, but the principles could be carried over to here and can be written in in clarity for

248
00:33:57.030 --> 00:34:05.580
Sean: For the bot that is already existing and maybe we upgrade that thought that sounds like it could be a an on ramp, as I call it,

249
00:34:06.930 --> 00:34:08.580
Sean: For the effects grants.

250
00:34:10.230 --> 00:34:17.430
Sean: I, you know, it sounds like I just need to put in. Do I just put in the first one would everybody like to see a larger, more strategic

251
00:34:18.030 --> 00:34:30.330
Sean: Like approach. And has anybody ever submitted, anything like that, you know, there's. So those are some questions to to make that process go along quickly because listings can really get complicated and take up a lot of time.

252
00:34:31.320 --> 00:34:43.860
Sean: And you know, I want to make sure I use my time efficiently and don't waste your time have a lot of corporate speak or something like that. But sometimes goes into these proposals, if you've ever, you know, done, that sort of thing.

253
00:34:45.540 --> 00:34:55.890
Sean: And, you know, but then there's also the opportunity to just help with with testing as it's being mentioned before, maybe that's the right place to start. So

254
00:34:57.870 --> 00:35:02.250
Sean: You know, I'm not. I'm trying to find the right place to get involved and efficient way.

255
00:35:03.660 --> 00:35:09.750
Jenny: Yeah, Sean, actually. So we can we can follow up a sink. But just to give a little more context on

256
00:35:10.860 --> 00:35:15.420
Jenny: This grant that that Harold is working on for this voting mechanism and

257
00:35:16.440 --> 00:35:28.680
Jenny: There's no pressure to build out like a product or technical solution just yet. I think that we knew that doing that by the end of Q1 2021 would be fairly ambitious.

258
00:35:29.400 --> 00:35:43.200
Jenny: The priority is to to actually test different types of voting to see what makes the most sense for our community. And that's what Harold is working on now, but also scoping out solutions.

259
00:35:44.220 --> 00:35:56.790
Jenny: Like product solutions to actually build that voting mechanism into because by the end of Q1 2021 what we do want to achieve is having some sort of tool that we can use to

260
00:35:57.330 --> 00:36:13.500
Jenny: Help the community make decisions by, by voting on them. And so like the the full product or in the past, you said that we would build build some open source Source software from scratch, ourselves, which is again quite ambitious to do. And just to order.

261
00:36:15.060 --> 00:36:16.680
Jenny: So that could be like the Q2.

262
00:36:18.360 --> 00:36:26.490
Jenny: Goal. If this grant were to get renewed but this first this first phase is very much exploratory and very much about

263
00:36:28.320 --> 00:36:31.560
Jenny: identifying what works for us, and correct me if I'm wrong on any of that Harold

264
00:36:33.600 --> 00:36:34.350
No, not at all.

265
00:36:35.370 --> 00:36:36.180
Correct. I'm

266
00:36:37.230 --> 00:36:45.270
Harold Davis: Happy for any any contribution, Shauna I think I speak for everybody here that you know I know for myself, uh, you know,

267
00:36:46.410 --> 00:36:47.190
Harold Davis: We feel like

268
00:36:50.790 --> 00:36:51.270
Sean: I'm up

269
00:36:52.950 --> 00:37:03.390
Harold Davis: Contributions in the in this space, you know, you know. We've even been, you know, open to having other folks who are interested host meetings like this from the very beginning. And so

270
00:37:04.770 --> 00:37:23.250
Harold Davis: It's been a very, you know, warm culture here in terms of, you know, making sure folks, you're comfortable in contributing. So I hope that you you've experienced that as well. And I hope I can, I can play my part in this. And I think you have a whole lot to offer. So it won't be too hard.

271
00:37:26.100 --> 00:37:27.690
Sean: To be to say thank you, I guess.

272
00:37:28.500 --> 00:37:32.370
Sean: I'll be following up with you after this and get into some details or

273
00:37:35.700 --> 00:37:36.030
Sean: Cool.

274
00:37:39.090 --> 00:37:41.100
Jenny: I can follow up afterwards as well.

275
00:37:42.270 --> 00:37:47.700
Jenny: So we have quite if they think that we can probably go through them.

276
00:37:49.020 --> 00:37:51.030
Jenny: Given that we only have 11 minutes lunch.

277
00:37:55.410 --> 00:38:01.410
Jenny: Right. So we went over grant project management. I'm sure that Juliet will Juliet did keep us updated she

278
00:38:02.130 --> 00:38:14.820
Jenny: Shared the issue with some updates to her work on the code of conduct in the governance working group channel yesterday. So if anyone is curious about those updates. You can look there. And this, I think I

279
00:38:14.850 --> 00:38:15.780
Jason Schrader: mentioned this in

280
00:38:16.140 --> 00:38:17.100
Jenny: In the last meeting.

281
00:38:17.880 --> 00:38:23.730
Jenny: Jason you're including this in your yeah JS grant backlog. Perfect.

282
00:38:25.080 --> 00:38:25.530
Jenny: We can

283
00:38:26.070 --> 00:38:35.790
Jason Schrader: Create those two new tags. I'll just throw that out there real quick. So I've got JS like one for in progress and one for the grant backlog. Just as a quick way to let you know. It's part of what I'm working on.

284
00:38:36.300 --> 00:38:43.470
Jason Schrader: But again, you know, anybody's welcome to comment or to provide input or anything else. I'm not trying to drive it unilaterally, but I don't really want to get it done.

285
00:38:45.960 --> 00:38:46.860
Jenny: Awesome. Thank you.

286
00:38:50.730 --> 00:38:51.330
Jenny: Do we

287
00:38:52.860 --> 00:39:03.510
Jenny: Are there any just to be mindful of time and we can go through these one by one. Or we can just go through ones that folks have questions on Jason given certain preference here.

288
00:39:06.210 --> 00:39:16.920
Jason Schrader: Now I think these are ones that we keep revisiting like the GT GT or the proposal, you know, we probably need to just invite Jordan back to talk a little more about it or see if that's still something people want to do

289
00:39:17.880 --> 00:39:27.060
Jason Schrader: The idea there was to have like a dot sex highly top level domain name or something and it was pretty ambitious idea, but it could be a really cool one.

290
00:39:27.510 --> 00:39:42.600
Jason Schrader: As well. And it also is a bit pending on what's going on with DNS and some of the changes that will happen post X 2.0. So for this one. I don't have anything to add, but I know that was was just really interesting when when it came up as a concept.

291
00:39:43.620 --> 00:39:43.920
Okay.

292
00:39:47.040 --> 00:39:49.710
Jenny: And yeah. And do any of these stand out to you.

293
00:39:52.260 --> 00:39:52.770
Jenny: Because he didn't

294
00:39:52.980 --> 00:39:53.670
Jason Schrader: actually feel it.

295
00:39:53.700 --> 00:39:56.430
Jason Schrader: Will you refresh the page for me real quick. Sure.

296
00:39:57.570 --> 00:40:04.470
Jason Schrader: See how many of those I tagged. So I need to grab those to roll ones as well because those are going to be a part of what I'm working on.

297
00:40:05.190 --> 00:40:15.030
Jason Schrader: Nothing that jumps out to me that I have to update or to share, but definitely appreciate everyone looking over the list. And if there's anywhere you want to comment. This would be the time to jump in.

298
00:40:28.260 --> 00:40:33.510
Jenny: Right and look like there. Any questions here. I mean, as you can all see a lot of these are

299
00:40:34.530 --> 00:40:40.590
Jenny: You know ideas that have come up during these Working Group calls that are good ideas. Not necessarily.

300
00:40:41.340 --> 00:40:51.300
Jenny: The priority for anyone, but we obviously like to keep a record of them. And so things like exploring a possible collaboration with medical of it is slightly related to what Aaron's

301
00:40:51.630 --> 00:40:57.210
Jenny: Has been working on and it's something that we would probably like to explore more in future. Once we have established more

302
00:40:57.840 --> 00:41:09.990
Jenny: Of our goals and like a fireside chat series, that's something that we're interested in in a town hall, for example, focus specifically on governance. So these issues will all stay here.

303
00:41:10.380 --> 00:41:18.510
Jenny: Because they are relevant to the work that we want to do, though they might not be as I said a priority now, but I think

304
00:41:19.170 --> 00:41:32.280
Jenny: Instead of going through each one of them one by one. We can probably move on. We do have eight minutes left for discussion. I thought it would be a good time to open that up for any other discussion points that haven't been raised on the call yet.

305
00:41:36.900 --> 00:41:37.800
Ryan Arndt: I'm curious how the

306
00:41:37.950 --> 00:41:41.640
Ryan Arndt: Two old phone Council stuff is going since I saw the tickets closed now.

307
00:41:45.150 --> 00:41:51.360
Harold Davis: Yeah, yeah, I think I can open up a new one with with more with more updates.

308
00:41:52.620 --> 00:41:59.250
Harold Davis: Yeah, so it's it's going good. We like I said we were hopefully meeting with English soon as

309
00:41:59.460 --> 00:42:11.370
Harold Davis: Things woken up for him class wise. And that's exciting because, you know, it really gives us an opportunity to get some guidance on digital fabrication side of things.

310
00:42:13.080 --> 00:42:14.160
Harold Davis: And yeah.

311
00:42:14.250 --> 00:42:15.570
Harold Davis: And hopefully bring

312
00:42:15.630 --> 00:42:22.080
Harold Davis: Web three to that to that context. And also, you know, discuss other possible

313
00:42:22.650 --> 00:42:36.570
Harold Davis: Grants a little bit further with folks like on Joe that I'm Ryan was able to meet who works with the great piece org which works adjacent to the to the longhouse of the indigenous Council there in Quebec.

314
00:42:37.080 --> 00:42:52.140
Harold Davis: And yeah, I discussed, you know, just the different possibilities for the multiple grants that you that you mentioned are possible here and at that meeting. And yeah, the some of the education things that we we had already planned it you know get underway, but

315
00:42:53.280 --> 00:42:54.330
Harold Davis: The now can you know

316
00:42:55.470 --> 00:43:02.280
Harold Davis: Get done, especially in these hard times, it can help folks at the Council and so I'm

317
00:43:03.450 --> 00:43:14.460
Harold Davis: Excited to to hopefully show some of the, the bottom of governance overlap between indigenous modes of organization decision making, specifically matrimonial

318
00:43:15.120 --> 00:43:27.150
Harold Davis: Decision making, and and how that can apply to the community also excited to show hopefully get some some education educational base grants on in terms of governance.

319
00:43:27.780 --> 00:43:42.000
Harold Davis: Going on in terms of the jurisprudence that that that can be offered through through this Council dialogue as well, which is a, it's a, it's a rare and unique type of jurisprudence that you know can give a lot of autonomy to

320
00:43:42.600 --> 00:43:52.710
Harold Davis: Organizations like this that want to ensure long term sustainability in blockchain based systems and, you know, governance becomes a huge part of that. And so, yeah.

321
00:43:53.700 --> 00:44:06.570
Harold Davis: A lot of exciting stuff still going on. And I'll be sure to get another issue open so that folks like Sean and and Ryan, anybody can can add to to discussions around this.

322
00:44:07.830 --> 00:44:10.560
Harold Davis: And yeah. Thank you kindly for for bringing it up right

323
00:44:11.190 --> 00:44:20.370
Ryan Arndt: Oh yeah. No problems if they have any questions about the contracts. We sent about a blank contract from the foundation so they could see what the what it looks like if they have any questions, let me know.

324
00:44:21.480 --> 00:44:24.360
Harold Davis: We'll do we'll do I did, I did get it out to them thinking

325
00:44:25.530 --> 00:44:25.800
Ryan Arndt: About

326
00:44:33.630 --> 00:44:35.340
Jenny: Any other discussion items.

327
00:44:41.070 --> 00:44:42.270
Sean: No discussion.

328
00:44:43.980 --> 00:44:47.820
Jenny: Thanks. And I guess with the last four minutes, I can just go over

329
00:44:48.840 --> 00:44:50.880
Jenny: A couple of the Community points that I do think are

330
00:44:50.940 --> 00:44:59.370
Jenny: Relevant for governance, because they are part of a big a bigger decentralization effort. So I'll just, I'll list them off quickly. So

331
00:45:02.100 --> 00:45:08.460
Jenny: Discord server ownership or server ownership right now. Mitchell is the owner, which makes sense because he

332
00:45:08.910 --> 00:45:20.100
Jenny: He made the server moving forward. That is something that should be owned by the community. And that was actually included and the grant application for the otter moderation bots.

333
00:45:20.640 --> 00:45:31.380
Jenny: Nothing about how server ownership would be transferred or anything, but I think the plan is that we would transfer ownership to a community account and

334
00:45:33.030 --> 00:45:38.760
Jenny: That account so like that that server ownership account would only be accessed by folks with

335
00:45:40.230 --> 00:45:46.980
Jenny: Higher levels of access in incomplete emergencies and folks included in that group would also include community members.

336
00:45:47.580 --> 00:45:55.320
Jenny: But everyone otherwise on a daily basis should probably be operating from an individual account. So that's, you know, one of the plans that I'm working on.

337
00:45:56.220 --> 00:46:06.960
Jenny: Just to move decentralization forward, things like the evangelists program we are overhauling and I think it's something that may fall under the umbrella of the foundation, but

338
00:46:07.650 --> 00:46:18.120
Jenny: Is something that will have points of contact between entities. So folks who come into the Evangelist program with a technical background, for example.

339
00:46:18.810 --> 00:46:25.770
Jenny: would meet and be on boarded by Joe and there'd be very specific projects that they can work on

340
00:46:26.580 --> 00:46:32.490
Jenny: Whereas like folks who are interested in community growth and evangelism in different parts of the world would meet with Louis

341
00:46:33.480 --> 00:46:48.450
Jenny: And folks who are interested in the education content production side of things would meet with me. So you're sharing the responsibilities of interacting with community and building community across various entities and

342
00:46:49.620 --> 00:46:59.700
Jenny: What else would have applying things like okay ours. Objectives and key results to folks in the community as well. So they were all sort of united and aligned under similar goals.

343
00:47:00.120 --> 00:47:06.270
Jenny: And objectives every quarter, that's something that we're putting together and I should be posting

344
00:47:06.690 --> 00:47:14.310
Jenny: A proposal for a new or revised evangelists program on the forum, pretty soon. And we're also developing

345
00:47:14.760 --> 00:47:21.930
Jenny: More sophisticated criteria for the stacks chapters program. I know that that's something that a lot of community members had questions about

346
00:47:22.860 --> 00:47:30.930
Jenny: But understanding what's required to get funding for a sax chapters program. For example, I think it's needed, and needs to be public.

347
00:47:31.770 --> 00:47:38.790
Jenny: I don't quite know what those criteria are yet, but I'll let you know what I do and see how those, those are a few things on my mind when I

348
00:47:39.450 --> 00:47:48.930
Jenny: Think about decentralization, I mean, the main at launch is coming up pretty quickly. So asking seemingly minor questions like, who's going to own the server after me that launcher.

349
00:47:49.770 --> 00:47:57.900
Jenny: Is actually really important. So I would encourage everyone on the call to do the same. If you have questions about things like access, who owns what, and

350
00:47:58.350 --> 00:48:12.390
Jenny: You know whether something should a tool you're using, we can move over to an open source tool for example, those are all really great questions. And I think that we, as the governance working group want to set the example for those kinds of habits moving forward.

351
00:48:16.320 --> 00:48:17.520
Ryan Arndt: Awesome leadership journey.

352
00:48:22.650 --> 00:48:23.430
Jenny: Appreciate it.

353
00:48:25.740 --> 00:48:28.260
Sean: meetings that are like focused have an agenda.

354
00:48:28.740 --> 00:48:34.350
Sean: You know, have solutions. And then, and then move on and like assign things. It doesn't always happen.

355
00:48:36.930 --> 00:48:46.530
Jenny: Yeah, I mean, I'm going to give a ton of credit to to Jason who I think has experienced the pain of, like, you know, iterating over and over meeting structure.

356
00:48:47.730 --> 00:48:54.840
Jenny: You know, we've tried like we've tried having it be completely open and just having didn't like me, you know, meeting every week instead and

357
00:48:55.500 --> 00:49:11.130
Jenny: It takes a ton of time at iteration to figure out a format that works. So I think we've landed on one that's pretty good for us now. But we're always open to improvement. So, especially as like a new commercial and if you have ideas for improvement, please feel free to share them and discord.

358
00:49:13.170 --> 00:49:13.860
Sean: Thanks for the moon.

359
00:49:15.300 --> 00:49:21.510
Jenny: No problem. Alright, thanks everybody and thanks for all your updates Harold especially excited to see the work we're doing

360
00:49:22.920 --> 00:49:29.010
Jenny: Thanks a lot for taking that on the big project and Jason as well, congrats on your grant getting approved.

361
00:49:30.810 --> 00:49:32.700
Harold Davis: congrats to you as well. All the work

362
00:49:33.990 --> 00:49:40.500
Jason Schrader: Yeah, thank you excited to see some work moving forward and to get everything organized. Again, it always it always makes me sad, happy.

363
00:49:44.340 --> 00:49:51.390
Harold Davis: Or apologies, by the way she wasn't feeling the best so she she mentioned all of the work that you that you mentioned.

364
00:49:52.650 --> 00:49:54.480
Jenny: So she's very

365
00:49:55.590 --> 00:50:06.510
Jenny: Well. Oh, and I guess we probably are meeting cadence will change a little bit. Given that, I think, some folks will be off next week and the week after. So we can probably

366
00:50:06.810 --> 00:50:21.660
Jenny: sync up on this in the governance channel and but just just deciding on when our next meeting should be and taking some time to share some more comprehensive updates so that everyone knows where everyone's at. But yeah, I assume we won't be meeting again until early January.

367
00:50:25.290 --> 00:50:33.960
Jenny: All right, evil and enjoy it. You know, if you're having. If you have time off of whatever holiday you're celebrating hope that you get to relax and decompress

368
00:50:35.940 --> 00:50:39.360
Jason Schrader: Yeah, definitely. Thanks everybody for being here, appreciate y'all.

369
00:50:40.230 --> 00:50:41.100
Sean: Thank you. Bye.

370
00:50:41.550 --> 00:50:42.180
Bye.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
