# 20200910 Governance Working Group Call 23

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:00.750 --> 00:00:01.020
Jason Schrader: Yeah.

2
00:00:01.079 --> 00:00:06.120
Jason Schrader: And yeah, I'll grab it down and we'll put it on YouTube, which is part of what I gotta help catch up here.

3
00:00:06.690 --> 00:00:08.370
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, cool okay yeah we're good to go.

4
00:00:09.540 --> 00:00:16.320
Jason Schrader: Alright. Awesome. Well, yeah. So a quick stand up from me. I am. I'm actually in the middle of building an office.

5
00:00:16.590 --> 00:00:22.620
Jason Schrader: So I'm kind of doing this thing in my barn where I'm setting up an office that I'll have a little more space to work from. And

6
00:00:23.010 --> 00:00:31.920
Jason Schrader: Things will be a little better. But as far as the foundation goes two weeks ago I went through and updated a whole bunch of resources on GitHub to help with navigation.

7
00:00:32.280 --> 00:00:37.560
Jason Schrader: Because we do have a doc certify kind of website that goes along with everything that we're storing and GitHub.

8
00:00:37.920 --> 00:00:44.610
Jason Schrader: And there was a little issue of, like, you click on something, you couldn't get back, and it was a little messy. So I went through and did that.

9
00:00:44.940 --> 00:00:54.750
Jason Schrader: My next target that I'm looking at would be to catch up some of our like videos and make sure that our table is updated with the calls that we've done

10
00:00:55.140 --> 00:01:03.120
Jason Schrader: And getting back into our regular flow. So I mentioned a little earlier that I walked through kind of how to create an agenda with Julia.

11
00:01:03.540 --> 00:01:08.460
Jason Schrader: And I made a comment down at the bottom of today's agenda to those trying to think of a way to make this easier.

12
00:01:08.790 --> 00:01:16.770
Jason Schrader: Because the more we do it and the more we've had to go through an update. I feel like we're curating a lot of content into the agenda. It's a little

13
00:01:17.280 --> 00:01:21.870
Jason Schrader: Troublesome to figure out, like, Whoa, did we talk about that we did, we capture everything

14
00:01:22.470 --> 00:01:32.730
Jason Schrader: So I have a little idea that I just love a little thumbs up from everybody if they like it or any feedback. Below that, but other than that. That would be my my big goal for this week.

15
00:01:33.270 --> 00:01:41.580
Jason Schrader: And I don't really have any blockers, um, you know, I just think that the the goal for me is to keep going to refactor and get everything is cleaned up as possible.

16
00:01:42.750 --> 00:01:59.940
Ryan Arndt: Okay, cool. Sounds good. And I know it's been a big help. Like getting even helping me get the the audio and everything on to get hub for the ecosystem cost you. So I appreciate that. Thank you. And. Alright so next lane. You want to go next.

17
00:02:02.010 --> 00:02:07.020
Lane Rettig: Sure. Yeah. Pretty Jason, you mentioned in the office today. So now we're kind of commiserating

18
00:02:08.280 --> 00:02:14.100
Lane Rettig: Because I'm in the process of moving as well. So it's been great occupying on a time

19
00:02:15.450 --> 00:02:25.650
Lane Rettig: Yeah, mostly getting caught up on GitHub stuff I was reading the I've reviewed some of the work that Jason did Jason. Thank you, the doc supply stuff is like super, super, super helpful. As always, thank you.

20
00:02:26.700 --> 00:02:30.930
Lane Rettig: Yeah, we're doing the grant applications as well. And it was all the journey together.

21
00:02:32.130 --> 00:02:36.090
Lane Rettig: I don't have a whole lot to add all looks great. And I'm really excited to see the grant applications rolling

22
00:02:38.670 --> 00:02:45.750
Ryan Arndt: I know from foundations, had we bought eight think right now, but there's there iterating on each other already. So we're working on that.

23
00:02:47.130 --> 00:02:55.110
Lane Rettig: I don't, I don't know if now's the right time to ask her if you want to save this for later. But I'm just curious. I've seen a few people weigh in on the grant applications and I wasn't really sure. Like, I don't want to

24
00:02:55.530 --> 00:03:03.570
Lane Rettig: That's not really my place. I'm not you know don't work for the foundation but D. Are you looking for more broader community input on them or not we can like to come back to it later if it's

25
00:03:03.930 --> 00:03:12.660
Ryan Arndt: Definitely like if you want to comment on there, please do. I mean, the long run, they get hub is an interim solution until we move over to granted I do. So that's getting set up but

26
00:03:13.260 --> 00:03:21.210
Ryan Arndt: The reason why that's delayed is because grant.io has community feedback. After the approval is done, which is reversible. We want. So yes, definitely add comments on there.

27
00:03:24.000 --> 00:03:26.520
Ryan Arndt: Okay, cool. And do you have any blockers or anything.

28
00:03:27.630 --> 00:03:29.670
Lane Rettig: No, I'm good here. Thank you. Okay, perfect.

29
00:03:29.730 --> 00:03:36.240
Ryan Arndt: No problem. Alright, Philip where you get there you go. Okay. And as an Easter Island, how are things going there for you.

30
00:03:39.270 --> 00:03:55.260
Phillip Roe: Well there's been a lot of a lot of my plate as I had met many hats leading the make a small company you're trying to focus on the missus Model A apply to our that and

31
00:03:56.100 --> 00:04:08.340
Phillip Roe: And also trying to understand how, you know, governments works in in our ecosystem. And so that's something that I tried to apply that in in our own

32
00:04:08.910 --> 00:04:21.000
Phillip Roe: Case and trying to have feedback on that and then standard reading whatever studying all that and and see what the same time we're getting into the in in our block stack existence.

33
00:04:22.050 --> 00:04:41.850
Phillip Roe: It's it's a lot. So that's every week is is worse, and this lack of time and sometimes you know the the concept of decentralization, sometimes it's it's a bit chaotic, because we don't understand who eats and who HOW THAT IS GOING TO BE DONE AND and

34
00:04:42.990 --> 00:05:01.860
Phillip Roe: So does as Jason said he's losing the loop, you know, and that's happens. I think that is happening. Many, many, many cases and working groups are two women culture that we had to see. We, the way that it should be done and and this run proposal what what I

35
00:05:03.540 --> 00:05:13.740
Phillip Roe: Probably. I was wondering, that the probably the why, I would go into stack propose, I mean grant proposal for the governance.

36
00:05:14.520 --> 00:05:22.170
Phillip Roe: Is because you know that that's the actual of decentralization of the stack foundations is been

37
00:05:22.710 --> 00:05:32.580
Phillip Roe: Done. And then, so then all the previous work that had been done by the BBC is not been done. So that's why that comes up. And so that's something that

38
00:05:33.180 --> 00:05:46.740
Phillip Roe: Probably we have to understand, make it clear, so that everybody knows that. Why are we doing that, you know, because, because sometimes some other actions that we're thinking. I think that a visit with them and

39
00:05:48.150 --> 00:05:54.360
Phillip Roe: Then, of course, the work that was lane doing, you know, higher by lane. I don't buy my PVC.

40
00:05:55.680 --> 00:06:07.470
Phillip Roe: I don't know if it was hired by by PVC or not, whatever, then probably lane has to take some of the sections and into this. But in this new way of

41
00:06:08.670 --> 00:06:14.340
Phillip Roe: Government probably is the you had to apply for

42
00:06:15.660 --> 00:06:24.000
Phillip Roe: So that's what I understand. I'm trying to understand how how this is being done because it's a completely new session. So that's

43
00:06:26.010 --> 00:06:34.890
Phillip Roe: That's more or less my my situation is a lot of work and tried to work in different things. I'm leaving my team because we have six people.

44
00:06:35.550 --> 00:06:47.460
Phillip Roe: Under two people only facing the blocks tech ecosystem. And then the rest, big, they don't get involved because language is a valid. So demo speak their own right. They read but

45
00:06:51.090 --> 00:06:51.300
Phillip Roe: That's

46
00:06:54.510 --> 00:06:57.870
Ryan Arndt: Okay, thanks for that sounds like it'd be good to have some like a

47
00:06:58.350 --> 00:07:09.930
Ryan Arndt: Jason and Julia, we're working on the protocol of like the agendas and things like that. So getting more consistency around those things would be helpful for what you're doing to it's kind of hard to know sometimes and I find that to to know where to look and when to look

48
00:07:11.280 --> 00:07:15.660
Ryan Arndt: For different meetings and things like that. Julia just arrived, I admit

49
00:07:17.160 --> 00:07:24.120
Ryan Arndt: But yeah, so I think coming tomorrow consistency around, it'll be helpful, because I feel the feeling you're you're expressing their to

50
00:07:25.200 --> 00:07:37.140
Ryan Arndt: You know, from what you're talking about what lane and who's paying land. He's a contractor by the foundation just explanation. So yeah, if that helps clarify things. I don't know if you wanted to add anything more to that.

51
00:07:38.310 --> 00:07:40.110
Lane Rettig: Um, so

52
00:07:41.400 --> 00:07:44.130
Lane Rettig: I think it was PVC because there wasn't an explanation at the time.

53
00:07:44.520 --> 00:07:45.720
Ryan Arndt: Right because was earlier when bringing it

54
00:07:45.720 --> 00:07:46.770
Ryan Arndt: Up. Sorry.

55
00:07:47.310 --> 00:07:52.380
Lane Rettig: I'm just, I'm just an ordinary community member volunteer CONTRIBUTOR AT THE MOMENT. Just, just to be clear.

56
00:07:55.050 --> 00:07:55.890
Ryan Arndt: And independent

57
00:07:56.010 --> 00:08:00.240
Ryan Arndt: So you're able to do everything that you need to independently, which is important.

58
00:08:04.260 --> 00:08:09.780
Ryan Arndt: Okay, cool. Brittany in as well. Okay, so the Philip so

59
00:08:11.550 --> 00:08:15.060
Ryan Arndt: Juliet. Are you able to hear us.

60
00:08:18.420 --> 00:08:19.830
Juliet Oberding: Yes, I'm able to hear you.

61
00:08:20.040 --> 00:08:22.920
Ryan Arndt: Okay, perfect. Who's going through stand ups.

62
00:08:22.950 --> 00:08:24.030
Ryan Arndt: So just wanted to give an

63
00:08:24.060 --> 00:08:25.860
Ryan Arndt: Update of what you've been up to the past two weeks I've been great.

64
00:08:30.360 --> 00:08:32.670
Juliet Oberding: Well, the past two weeks in like they've all

65
00:08:33.990 --> 00:08:36.600
Juliet Oberding: Run together. So I've done some work on

66
00:08:37.830 --> 00:08:41.670
Juliet Oberding: Training with the with Jason

67
00:08:43.350 --> 00:08:46.530
Juliet Oberding: On the GitHub and

68
00:08:48.840 --> 00:08:52.290
Juliet Oberding: Primarily also was up a meeting last week.

69
00:08:53.310 --> 00:08:54.930
Juliet Oberding: Talking about the

70
00:09:02.880 --> 00:09:04.380
Juliet Oberding: The work that we

71
00:09:05.460 --> 00:09:08.070
Juliet Oberding: Wanted to do with respect to the

72
00:09:09.420 --> 00:09:19.020
Juliet Oberding: Foundation and that, in general, my focus has been outside of block stack, my focus has been on policy work and

73
00:09:20.040 --> 00:09:32.250
Juliet Oberding: Policy work related to data. So data policy and focused on that. And so that's pretty much what I've been doing for the last few months.

74
00:09:33.750 --> 00:09:35.160
Ryan Arndt: Gotcha, keep you busy for sure.

75
00:09:36.630 --> 00:09:41.250
Ryan Arndt: Okay. Well, thank you for that. And so, Jenny, do you want to go next.

76
00:09:43.050 --> 00:09:59.850
Jenny Mith: Sure, yeah. And the last couple weeks have been spent on this grant proposal, so actually sent out a link to the draft this morning. It's ready for review and hopefully there's time during this call to review it and that last week.

77
00:10:00.780 --> 00:10:11.160
Jenny Mith: On a call with with Julie just trying to understand some of the details around this voting mechanism, a little more than looking at the guy in boxes proposal and figuring out

78
00:10:12.060 --> 00:10:27.030
Jenny Mith: A way to sort of scope out this project so that it's something that we could actually include in the grant proposal and see how it's been a really illuminating process to try to turn some of these more and

79
00:10:28.260 --> 00:10:37.890
Jenny Mith: I guess I would call them like nebulous projects up to this point into discrete concrete tasks that we would propose to the community.

80
00:10:38.310 --> 00:10:46.200
Jenny Mith: And as far as like blockers. I don't. I think the goal is to obviously get this approved by the grants program.

81
00:10:46.680 --> 00:10:54.750
Jenny Mith: And and there are no blockers, other than like us sort of reviewing it and making sure that this is something that we definitely want the community to see and

82
00:10:55.110 --> 00:11:07.020
Jenny Mith: And that it's something that serves the stacks community and adds value to their lives. So yeah, I'm looking forward to hearing everyone's thoughts on it and seeing how we can improve it before we

83
00:11:07.590 --> 00:11:16.800
Jenny Mith: submit it. And ideally, if it's all good to go. We could submit this week. So then we can bring the count of grants up to tonight for proposals or applications today.

84
00:11:19.170 --> 00:11:35.640
Ryan Arndt: That sounds good. I know from our end we're reviewing on Tuesdays foundation updating Thursdays end of day and then so they could be like edited for the following Tuesday when we do the next grants review. So yeah, if that helps for your time and for submissions to that.

85
00:11:38.730 --> 00:11:44.130
Ryan Arndt: Okay. And then we have Jude. Jude. You want to know what do you been up to last two weeks.

86
00:11:45.210 --> 00:11:50.250
Jude Nelson: I've been working on the watch, and I don't have very many cycles to spare for anything else right now.

87
00:11:52.470 --> 00:11:53.880
Ryan Arndt: Okay. Well, thank you for coming.

88
00:11:54.840 --> 00:11:57.210
Ryan Arndt: In spite of all that I know there's a lot going on with that so

89
00:11:57.810 --> 00:12:05.040
Ryan Arndt: Okay, cool. And then Brittany was hope, which would have dropped or did I not let her in.

90
00:12:08.700 --> 00:12:10.560
Ryan Arndt: Oh no, she's not here. Okay.

91
00:12:12.000 --> 00:12:16.590
Ryan Arndt: Nourishment a fantastical issue. Okay, so, and then from my end. I just, I've been

92
00:12:16.920 --> 00:12:20.640
Ryan Arndt: Getting into more of different areas. The foundations of doing a newsletter going

93
00:12:22.320 --> 00:12:31.620
Ryan Arndt: And starting the grants program and getting those reviews that's been ongoing, as you all know, because you're involved in it. But yeah, I like any

94
00:12:32.550 --> 00:12:40.530
Ryan Arndt: Feedback you have on the governance committees grandfather would be through the submission process itself. So like I want to

95
00:12:41.010 --> 00:12:47.910
Ryan Arndt: Because we don't want to give preference to anybody. So you know that's something Jude and Brittany and I have talked about it but to not only wants the grand design process so

96
00:12:49.140 --> 00:12:57.570
Ryan Arndt: That is something that like when you guys talk about that today that I'll just kind of keep out of that and yeah let everybody, figure out what they want to do.

97
00:12:58.320 --> 00:13:08.940
Ryan Arndt: Okay. So with that, let's move forward to board nomination. So the stacks foundation of it. I can give some updates from what I know and Jude. If you want to chime in on any of these are

98
00:13:09.900 --> 00:13:19.230
Ryan Arndt: The three that are there. So board nominations community board seat and bylaws, as far as I know, and as far as I've seen nothing has changed from our end on, if there's an update on that.

99
00:13:20.280 --> 00:13:29.610
Ryan Arndt: The only thing I've seen is with Jude has been talking about with the voting and that could impact on the community board seat, but that is not. I think there's no update on that since last time I

100
00:13:31.140 --> 00:13:36.750
Ryan Arndt: Don't know if that would have been two weeks ago if there has been an update in two weeks around the voting rights to stop of St.

101
00:13:42.150 --> 00:13:42.450
Ryan Arndt: Jude.

102
00:13:44.550 --> 00:13:46.320
Jude Nelson: I'm sorry, I didn't hear the question.

103
00:13:46.770 --> 00:13:58.650
Ryan Arndt: Okay, no worries. Um, so yeah, there's like the voting for the community board seat that stuff in the past two weeks. It's nothing is really like. There's no concrete change to discuss on this call here, right.

104
00:13:59.010 --> 00:14:09.210
Jude Nelson: Well, not quite yet Jenny's been working on the grant proposal for exploring possible different ways to wait to the voting. Yeah, as well as gaming out different

105
00:14:11.490 --> 00:14:18.480
Jude Nelson: Different voluntary votes for these different procedures to see how well they match up against making decisions.

106
00:14:19.680 --> 00:14:27.750
Jude Nelson: That proposal, I think we're going to try that for like, was it 90 days, I want to say I'm just to see this just to help us get a better a

107
00:14:27.780 --> 00:14:31.020
Jude Nelson: Better sense of the various types of voting systems under consideration.

108
00:14:31.470 --> 00:14:32.790
Jude Nelson: And then from there we can pick one.

109
00:14:34.170 --> 00:14:36.210
Jude Nelson: But that is the extent of what I know right now.

110
00:14:36.420 --> 00:14:40.440
Ryan Arndt: Perfect no impact at clarity board seat, but not board nominations. Right.

111
00:14:41.070 --> 00:14:44.460
Jude Nelson: Yeah. Anyone can nominate a board and nominate someone for the Lord.

112
00:14:45.270 --> 00:14:52.050
Ryan Arndt: Okay, cool. And I don't. I haven't seen any AN UPDATE LIST or anything. I know there was a forum post about it, but everything on GitHub. It's here.

113
00:14:52.830 --> 00:15:00.510
Ryan Arndt: It's no changes from what I'm seeing here. So, and I'm not aware of anything new. I was hoping pretty good speak to that, but she might be technical issues there.

114
00:15:01.950 --> 00:15:07.500
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, so that's where that's at. So if that's all right. I don't know if anyone else wants to add anything to this section.

115
00:15:08.730 --> 00:15:14.250
Ryan Arndt: But we could then move on to the grants application draft agenda was talking about. How's that sound.

116
00:15:18.030 --> 00:15:20.730
Jenny Mith: I can speak to that too. While we go over there.

117
00:15:22.050 --> 00:15:22.950
Jenny Mith: Yeah, okay.

118
00:15:22.980 --> 00:15:23.280
Ryan Arndt: Awesome.

119
00:15:23.760 --> 00:15:24.810
Ryan Arndt: I will move out of the way.

120
00:15:24.930 --> 00:15:25.560
Ryan Arndt: Go JIMMY GO.

121
00:15:28.890 --> 00:15:30.570
Jenny Mith: And share my screen.

122
00:15:47.370 --> 00:15:48.540
Jenny Mith: Can everyone see that

123
00:15:51.960 --> 00:15:54.750
Jenny Mith: First comment is, I didn't expect it to be so long.

124
00:15:56.370 --> 00:15:57.150
Jenny Mith: There are

125
00:16:00.900 --> 00:16:05.400
Lane Rettig: What's that we can see clearly. But can you just increase the font size of up. It's just really tiny.

126
00:16:11.820 --> 00:16:12.990
Lane Rettig: Awesome. Thank you.

127
00:16:14.280 --> 00:16:23.430
Jenny Mith: No problem. Um, yeah. First comment was it I think like i. And what I found in doing this process is that

128
00:16:23.880 --> 00:16:27.120
Jenny Mith: When I would write out one section I realized that there's kind of

129
00:16:27.480 --> 00:16:35.580
Jenny Mith: A gap or a disconnect between what we said we wanted to do. And it was actually possible and so would have to add in detail or two, which is probably why it's a little longer than

130
00:16:36.180 --> 00:16:45.360
Jenny Mith: I would have expected. So maybe this doesn't pass the test of it being concise. So sorry. You have to read it, but we can probably edit it in the meantime.

131
00:16:46.950 --> 00:17:01.380
Jenny Mith: Right, so I actually, I'm not sure what the best way to do this as I don't expect everyone to sort of read the read it on this call. I think some of you have had some time to skim it and would it be helpful for me to just go over very quickly, each of the sections and

132
00:17:03.450 --> 00:17:08.550
Jenny Mith: I guess cover some ideas that we maybe haven't or some details that we haven't covered on calls before

133
00:17:13.170 --> 00:17:13.470
Okay.

134
00:17:16.770 --> 00:17:30.720
Jenny Mith: I'm going to take that silence as a yes and okay so yeah I the background was interesting to write because I think in the past we have been in agreement about the purpose of this governance group.

135
00:17:31.560 --> 00:17:40.350
Jenny Mith: And in writing the background I sort of wanted to connect that to why we would sort of seek out support from the sack foundation

136
00:17:41.820 --> 00:17:57.150
Jenny Mith: In the first place, because we don't necessarily need funding or that kind of support to move forward with some of these projects, but it certainly helps because the things that we want to accomplish for community or in service of community.

137
00:17:57.660 --> 00:18:01.290
Jenny Mith: Are pretty major projects and things like bounties definitely need

138
00:18:02.130 --> 00:18:11.520
Jenny Mith: To be funded and we want to compensate developers or stack developers and community members for that kind of work. So the background basically sums up and

139
00:18:12.000 --> 00:18:20.190
Jenny Mith: What we as a governance working group want to do, which is to advocate for the needs of this X community and mainly by providing them with

140
00:18:20.520 --> 00:18:25.620
Jenny Mith: Better tools especially dev tooling and better educational material and

141
00:18:26.100 --> 00:18:35.280
Jenny Mith: Considering that the stacks two point O launches sort of on the horizon. We've been able to identify and prioritize a few key issues that have that many issues that

142
00:18:35.850 --> 00:18:44.820
Jenny Mith: We could have tackled we've boiled them down to three that would really set us up for success after the launch of stacks you and those issues are

143
00:18:46.170 --> 00:18:57.210
Jenny Mith: Testing and implementing a voting mechanism that the entire Sachs ecosystem could use for coming to a consensus or making decisions and developing a camp evil.

144
00:18:57.870 --> 00:19:10.020
Jenny Mith: Code of Conduct that we could enforce and us to unify the stacks community and we can go into details of what that means later in the proposal and and actually

145
00:19:11.550 --> 00:19:17.550
Jenny Mith: Building a tool that would enable decentralized notifications and profiles in blocks applications which has been a real need

146
00:19:18.570 --> 00:19:29.370
Jenny Mith: From my understanding, since 2018 or it's been like on the minds or it's been top of mind for developers. Since 2018 when Aaron first proposes. So the idea is that

147
00:19:30.210 --> 00:19:37.500
Jenny Mith: Should we secure support from the grants program. We as a governance working group would take the lead on things like research and

148
00:19:37.830 --> 00:19:49.320
Jenny Mith: Project management. So the kinds of efforts that are required to solve the of the above issues, but we would obviously work very closely with community on actually executing on these solutions so

149
00:19:50.940 --> 00:20:00.660
Jenny Mith: I think like Said another way, this grant would kickstart several important projects that we've maybe sort of been stopped start on because we've had to rely on PVC.

150
00:20:01.050 --> 00:20:15.990
Jenny Mith: And and there isn't like a clear path forward for community development as well. So this grants program not only gives us funding, but it gives us direction and also sort of tells us with authority from the community to to carry out these projects.

151
00:20:17.220 --> 00:20:34.050
Jenny Mith: And and if we're successful in this upcoming quarter in at least making progress on these projects. The hope is that we would be able to renew this kind of support and continue working in, in the same way and upcoming quarter so into 2021

152
00:20:36.120 --> 00:20:40.410
Jenny Mith: And any questions on that everyone anyone

153
00:20:43.410 --> 00:20:47.460
Jenny Mith: Cool. Okay. So as far as the solutions that we are

154
00:20:49.230 --> 00:21:01.380
Jenny Mith: proposing the first solution. And this is actually fairly new. And this is because originally we were pretty set on decentralized radical, but after our color pink decided to go in a different direction and figured out that

155
00:21:02.100 --> 00:21:08.040
Jenny Mith: A voting mechanism was actually pretty high priority for us. We currently don't have a formal mechanism for

156
00:21:08.850 --> 00:21:17.040
Jenny Mith: Again coming to a consensus or making decisions within the community. So what we're proposing to do in this upcoming quarter so Q4 2020

157
00:21:17.760 --> 00:21:27.510
Jenny Mith: Is test evaluate and report on at least four different voting mechanisms. So one of those mechanisms is the one that Jude and Pascal proposed.

158
00:21:28.080 --> 00:21:33.660
Jenny Mith: Or worked on that takes into account the age of a block sack name and

159
00:21:34.290 --> 00:21:41.970
Jenny Mith: And quadratic voting is a concept that I think that we, as a group, have talked a lot about and community members have also talked a lot about. I think it's worth

160
00:21:42.300 --> 00:21:52.680
Jenny Mith: Us testing that. So those are the two prominent ones for the remaining two, I think that we can leave that open to community members to select so they would be able to

161
00:21:53.370 --> 00:21:57.510
Jenny Mith: Submit other voting mechanisms for consideration. The first week that we start this project.

162
00:21:57.990 --> 00:22:06.990
Jenny Mith: And what we're aiming to deliver within this next quarter is obviously testing. Each of these mechanisms. I think it'd be something like every

163
00:22:07.320 --> 00:22:13.470
Jenny Mith: Two weeks we would test one of these mechanisms by pulling community members on like a relevant issue.

164
00:22:13.890 --> 00:22:21.420
Jenny Mith: Within the sex ecosystem so relevant issue could be, you know, based on all the designs. You've seen and all the work that you've seen, should we move forward with the new stacks logo.

165
00:22:21.840 --> 00:22:26.580
Jenny Mith: It probably the issues are probably be different. That's the only example I can think of at the moment and

166
00:22:27.420 --> 00:22:36.780
Jenny Mith: And we would obviously make that data publicly accessible and would probably use a combination of like blood survey and spreadsheets.

167
00:22:37.200 --> 00:22:44.340
Jenny Mith: To actually log that data. So if you really simple and Tanya brought this up in the last meeting, which is that it's probably not worth

168
00:22:44.760 --> 00:22:52.230
Jenny Mith: Building out any software at this stage, but first testing some of these mechanisms evaluating them and seeing what works for our community.

169
00:22:52.500 --> 00:23:02.310
Jenny Mith: And when we get to the stage where we actually want to select one of these mechanisms for us, then we can actually build out custom software that we can use open source custom software.

170
00:23:02.850 --> 00:23:17.340
Jenny Mith: That we can use for pretty much any use case in the sex community. So that's the first solution second solution is to develop and publish a draft code of conduct that we will work with community on

171
00:23:18.600 --> 00:23:29.820
Jenny Mith: Actually developing. So I think that a representative of this working group would take lead on that would crowdsource content from the community for that, I think, originally, we thought that we would

172
00:23:31.590 --> 00:23:43.560
Jenny Mith: Publish an official code of conduct this upcoming quarter, but taking into consideration the fact that we don't have a voting mechanism in place yet. I think we can commit to a working draft. So a draft that's

173
00:23:43.860 --> 00:23:57.240
Jenny Mith: Pretty solid pretty comprehensive, but isn't officially voted on or approved by Community until we actually have a voting mechanism in place which, according to this proposal is scheduled for the end of Q1 2021

174
00:23:58.290 --> 00:23:59.460
Jenny Mith: It could be sooner than that though.

175
00:24:01.590 --> 00:24:05.550
Jenny Mith: And yeah. Okay, moving on to the next one. I know we're short on time.

176
00:24:06.720 --> 00:24:18.450
Jenny Mith: designing, implementing and like getting participation in a bounty program for the guy a hub in boxes proposal. This was another good point that was brought up on the last call. Does that I think it

177
00:24:19.650 --> 00:24:26.400
Jenny Mith: Is probably ambitious to try to fulfill the entire proposal by the end of the year.

178
00:24:27.180 --> 00:24:29.100
Jenny Mith: But what we can do is sort of scope.

179
00:24:29.550 --> 00:24:37.080
Jenny Mith: The work that needs to be done, break, break it down into bounties that we can incentivize developers with and commit to

180
00:24:37.500 --> 00:24:46.980
Jenny Mith: At least fulfilling like half of those boundaries. By the end of this year to demonstrate that we've made meaningful progress toward this proposal and, and you mentioned that a

181
00:24:47.550 --> 00:25:01.080
Jenny Mith: reasonable metric of success for this is that by the end of Q1 2021 that's my suggestion on timing that blocks FTC actually adopts the work that has come together on this proposal.

182
00:25:02.970 --> 00:25:12.630
Jenny Mith: So, like, in summary, and our solutions are to report on four different voting mechanisms that could work for this tax community.

183
00:25:13.710 --> 00:25:26.430
Jenny Mith: To develop and publish a draft code of conduct that is basically workable. By the end of this year and to implement a bounty program for the guy have in boxes proposal.

184
00:25:29.130 --> 00:25:30.840
Jenny Mith: Then you won't have any questions there.

185
00:25:32.370 --> 00:25:40.680
Jenny Mith: So there are a lot of details there that we haven't discussed and those details aren't anything out of the box, necessarily, I've just included them for the purposes of

186
00:25:42.090 --> 00:25:44.100
Jenny Mith: Project Management for this proposal.

187
00:25:52.440 --> 00:25:52.740
Know,

188
00:25:55.110 --> 00:26:08.160
Juliet Oberding: I have a question. Sure. I don't. When did we discuss the other three voting mechanisms, I, I don't have a problem with quadratic of voting, but I don't remember discussing

189
00:26:09.960 --> 00:26:14.130
Juliet Oberding: Additional voting method methods other than what you'd have proposed.

190
00:26:15.960 --> 00:26:23.190
Jenny Mith: Yeah, actually I figured that that might be a point of contention. I put quadratic voting in there just because we use as a group of discussing a lot but

191
00:26:23.610 --> 00:26:30.720
Jenny Mith: We could change that out completely and the number four is I should have also also mentioned is arbitrary. I just was

192
00:26:31.290 --> 00:26:37.680
Jenny Mith: Facing it on the amount of time we have, and like how realistic it would how Realistically how much time we would need to test

193
00:26:38.040 --> 00:26:49.980
Jenny Mith: One mechanism. So it could be up to four, it could be no to. If we're only confident in testing two and if we aren't happy with testing quadratic voting, then we don't have to

194
00:26:50.400 --> 00:26:58.650
Jenny Mith: And that can that can be totally up to the group, but there is room for communities to submit their own proposals for the mechanisms that we do test.

195
00:27:03.060 --> 00:27:04.110
Juliet Oberding: Okay, that sounds good.

196
00:27:04.500 --> 00:27:06.960
Jude Nelson: Yeah, you let us know if you think of other mechanisms.

197
00:27:07.530 --> 00:27:07.830
Hmm.

198
00:27:10.410 --> 00:27:11.430
Juliet Oberding: Don't worry I will

199
00:27:14.490 --> 00:27:26.760
Jenny Mith: Okay and. Alright, so first scope, they're just more details in this section and about how we would go about achieving

200
00:27:28.320 --> 00:27:45.450
Jenny Mith: These projects. So I kind of, I basically described how and testing and evaluation of the voting mechanisms would play out. I've included some things here that are totally also up for debate and like this here.

201
00:27:46.920 --> 00:27:59.610
Jenny Mith: We will ensure that each test these participation from at least 50 community members in order to gather sufficient data that is a number off the top of my head. If we have different opinions on that, please feel free to chime in there.

202
00:28:00.690 --> 00:28:01.200
Jenny Mith: And

203
00:28:02.910 --> 00:28:04.710
Jenny Mith: Yeah, that's all I'll say about that.

204
00:28:09.840 --> 00:28:20.970
Jenny Mith: So because the grant is very focused on deliverables. What I've mentioned here for the voting mechanisms, is that the deliverable we we commit to producing is by the end of the year, there will be a report.

205
00:28:21.540 --> 00:28:37.380
Jenny Mith: Analyzing the the efficacy of each of these voting mechanisms and but if there is like a better way that we think that we can demonstrate those results. That's also up for debate as well or or it seems like a pretty standard and way to do that.

206
00:28:42.480 --> 00:28:45.120
Jenny Mith: For that can be evil code of conduct. Does everyone

207
00:28:46.950 --> 00:28:59.880
Jenny Mith: Well, how does everyone feel about the deliverable being a working draft, as opposed to an official draft and the reason again for this is that we won't have a voting mechanism in place until next year so

208
00:29:01.110 --> 00:29:07.350
Jenny Mith: We wouldn't actually get official consensus from community on the Code of Conduct until that voting mechanism is in place.

209
00:29:10.680 --> 00:29:13.920
Jenny Mith: Does it like, do people think that's an unnecessary to do

210
00:29:13.950 --> 00:29:17.070
Juliet Oberding: I think I think it makes sense to have a working draft.

211
00:29:22.500 --> 00:29:33.480
Phillip Roe: consensus of the people that are working with this is sufficient at the beginning and minimum consensus and least you know that that talk has been

212
00:29:35.250 --> 00:29:41.670
Phillip Roe: Researched in in the survey that we automate. So this is something that we can take out from that.

213
00:29:43.440 --> 00:29:45.870
Phillip Roe: Research survey know that's

214
00:29:47.190 --> 00:29:53.100
Phillip Roe: That's a base. It's not based on on Skype, but at least you know it was mentioned in the

215
00:29:54.660 --> 00:29:55.470
Phillip Roe: Noted, you know,

216
00:29:57.720 --> 00:30:01.800
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think that's a good point there like in this scope, it does mention

217
00:30:02.880 --> 00:30:12.810
Jenny Mith: Us or a representative of this group taking lead on broad research of existing codes of conduct and we would take inspiration from those. So we would definitely

218
00:30:13.110 --> 00:30:21.480
Jenny Mith: Refer to any information that we have about our community, but also and modeling this code of conduct after other codes of conduct.

219
00:30:22.260 --> 00:30:31.110
Jenny Mith: That work for other communities. So that'll that will definitely be part of the process. It's not necessarily that we're, you know, writing it completely from scratch. I think that we have

220
00:30:31.980 --> 00:30:43.950
Jenny Mith: Other documents to refer to. But unlike other documents, this would be drafted very much in collaboration with community and with very specific demographics of the community in mind.

221
00:30:48.570 --> 00:30:57.030
Jenny Mith: And I guess this is like a this is a good point to emphasize. So before we actually get consensus on the code of conduct to using a voting mechanism.

222
00:30:57.510 --> 00:31:08.010
Jenny Mith: I the only way that I could imagine us getting some sort of approval is just like qualitative approval from community members. The comments and

223
00:31:08.310 --> 00:31:18.210
Jenny Mith: Work like working group calls, which, you know, will all be public or our public and and just basic sentiment that we see in discord in the forum and we can obviously gather that to

224
00:31:18.540 --> 00:31:29.760
Jenny Mith: Make a case for our code of conduct and which is why it's a working draft. So, if we see that in general there's a positive reaction to the working draft that that is enough and it can be something like

225
00:31:30.510 --> 00:31:37.770
Jenny Mith: In these are all details that you all can plug into, but it can be like a GitHub issue and people can make changes to it if they want to.

226
00:31:38.070 --> 00:31:45.480
Jenny Mith: Until it's actually time to go for it. When the voting mechanism is in place. So it seems like the big thing here that I want to emphasize that

227
00:31:46.050 --> 00:31:54.390
Jenny Mith: It seems like a lot is riding on this voting mechanism and being established, but it's also exciting because we will have something like that or

228
00:31:54.750 --> 00:32:03.960
Jenny Mith: We are really making progress toward or we're committing to making progress toward having a mechanism like that in place that will actually help us make these decisions officially

229
00:32:07.980 --> 00:32:15.150
Jenny Mith: Okay. So last thing is the the Gaia have in boxes and I have to say, technically I couldn't

230
00:32:15.600 --> 00:32:34.260
Jenny Mith: Really, I couldn't break down this proposal into specific bounties myself. So I say, and you know, discrete three to six discrete bounties that number can also change based on the what the developers in this call think and i don't know three to six is too many or or not enough.

231
00:32:35.790 --> 00:32:47.190
Jenny Mith: I don't even do it. Do we we do think that a bounty program could cover development of this proposal, though, right, we've said that on previous calls as well make sure that we're still thinking that

232
00:32:52.530 --> 00:33:02.220
Jason Schrader: I think the one thing that keeps coming to mind for me here like looking at how large this proposals become, is it worth breaking it into three separate

233
00:33:03.300 --> 00:33:11.220
Jason Schrader: Grant sort of proposals or ideas and it would that be helpful in also identifying those individual milestones and everything else.

234
00:33:11.670 --> 00:33:25.950
Jason Schrader: But I do, imagine that it would be possible. And I'm curious to see others input. We definitely have a lot in the forum and everything else, but the actual milestones that we would like to see. I imagine they can be broken down into at least three if not more.

235
00:33:28.140 --> 00:33:35.820
Jude Nelson: I think the grant proposal needs to have a pretty detailed design document attached to it. One thing. One way that they can see this going

236
00:33:36.300 --> 00:33:43.890
Jude Nelson: going south really fast and getting nothing done is this turning into some sort of design by committee process that ends up becoming an unwieldy engineering project.

237
00:33:49.800 --> 00:34:01.980
Jude Nelson: Either that or we make sure that like when the grants are recipients are decided we are, we make sure that that person or people that team are able to see the projects we to completion.

238
00:34:05.550 --> 00:34:05.910
Jenny Mith: Right.

239
00:34:07.440 --> 00:34:07.710
Jenny Mith: Yes.

240
00:34:10.950 --> 00:34:11.730
Dan Trevino: The

241
00:34:13.320 --> 00:34:20.310
Dan Trevino: Work here is really just design that breakdown. Right. It's just we're saying we're going to do some work to make this

242
00:34:21.360 --> 00:34:28.950
Dan Trevino: Proposal. This is the guy hub inbox work itself is not part of this grant, right, what I see is

243
00:34:30.270 --> 00:34:30.810
I mean, yeah.

244
00:34:33.810 --> 00:34:36.960
Jude Nelson: I'm confused now because I thought that this grant was going to be

245
00:34:39.540 --> 00:34:49.950
Jude Nelson: I thought the whole point. I thought that we were actually trying to build this like the designs, pretty much. I don't know. We there's that forum thread that talks about the design and design is pretty much settled.

246
00:34:53.250 --> 00:35:07.290
Jenny Mith: So the, the goal June is is to get it built, but get it built in collaboration with community. I think it would. I think we've all agreed that it would definitely be too much work for the few people on this call, however, talented.

247
00:35:08.340 --> 00:35:15.990
Jenny Mith: We know they are to try to build this out. So the idea would be that this group would sort of drive

248
00:35:16.470 --> 00:35:29.250
Jenny Mith: A program that gets that work done. So it would be on us to sort of scope out that proposal and turn it into different bounties and we could basically compensate

249
00:35:29.550 --> 00:35:39.180
Jenny Mith: Stacks community developers for building different aspects of it and and once all those boundaries are fulfilled, you basically have a finished product. I don't know if I'm

250
00:35:41.190 --> 00:35:52.710
Jenny Mith: confused on that. But yeah, we'd have finished product. And we would have basically distributed a bunch of the work and most community members, rather than trying to take it on ourselves. So the work that that the governance group would do.

251
00:35:53.490 --> 00:36:07.560
Jenny Mith: Is turning it into a bounty program in the first place and marketing it and making sure that developers are properly on boarded To the Bounty program. And, you know, it could be something like a GitHub or not a good have a good coin.

252
00:36:08.310 --> 00:36:20.760
Jenny Mith: Campaign or death post or we can self hosted or whatever. But it would give the opportunity, it would give other community developers, the opportunity to help with this proposal, rather than having us build the whole thing ourselves.

253
00:36:22.740 --> 00:36:23.730
Jude Nelson: I understand the

254
00:36:24.840 --> 00:36:34.140
Jude Nelson: That that's not the concern that I have the, the concern that I have is that we have a bunch of different people use the phrase too many chefs in the kitchen right

255
00:36:35.280 --> 00:36:36.810
Jude Nelson: This has the potential to go that way.

256
00:36:37.890 --> 00:36:48.870
Jude Nelson: I think those will needs to specifically constrain the number of people who can work on it like it's better to have one person who spent six months working on this than to have six people spending one month working on this.

257
00:36:49.380 --> 00:36:55.170
Dan Trevino: Okay, but it would it be helpful. Jude to take that forum posts and break it down into like a specific

258
00:36:56.400 --> 00:36:59.640
Dan Trevino: signed document that would be part of a bounty.

259
00:37:00.570 --> 00:37:12.960
Jude Nelson: I believe so. I think that I think that this this particular grant, I think, has a very tight procurement process. I think that the procurement process could very well be like

260
00:37:13.620 --> 00:37:29.520
Jude Nelson: We will come up with a detailed design document that describes exactly what needs to be done in, in doing so, we de risk the possibility of the projects starting off six different ways and getting nowhere because each person doesn't start from square one over and over again.

261
00:37:31.530 --> 00:37:31.860
Okay.

262
00:37:34.350 --> 00:37:38.760
Phillip Roe: But there's there's some experience of on what is mentioned as

263
00:37:40.830 --> 00:37:47.700
Phillip Roe: The functionality that's been looked for. And so then early also we have to research, those

264
00:37:48.870 --> 00:37:57.120
Phillip Roe: functionalities. I have seen in we as our company we have developed a way to do that. The same thing that it's been proposed and

265
00:37:57.660 --> 00:38:12.960
Phillip Roe: And there's some others. I think that the setup of once more that maybe we can we can take that those as a base of what we could be done and also may make a kind of a standard and that can be put in the higher guy your hand.

266
00:38:14.010 --> 00:38:16.470
Phillip Roe: And let me fix that considered a lot but

267
00:38:17.940 --> 00:38:25.050
Phillip Roe: The sort of the work on already done for for for the same purpose. I don't know how we do that.

268
00:38:25.980 --> 00:38:26.190
So,

269
00:38:27.780 --> 00:38:35.700
Dan Trevino: What if we were to take that form post break it down into the detailed design document the implementation details could still be

270
00:38:37.470 --> 00:38:37.890
Dan Trevino: You know,

271
00:38:39.510 --> 00:38:56.670
Dan Trevino: Different implement the two implementations can be proposed by different teams. It's just that the bounding would go to the one that most successfully build all the design requirements. So I don't think it it it rules out any specific existing more

272
00:38:58.140 --> 00:39:05.280
Dan Trevino: I feel like it just gives us an opportunity to kind of focus on what a what this grant is going to accomplish and be

273
00:39:06.450 --> 00:39:11.790
Dan Trevino: Out of that detailed son but document. What are the requirements that we want to see accomplished and

274
00:39:12.870 --> 00:39:28.140
Dan Trevino: In taking kind of the, the solution that you guys have already into kind of fundamental infrastructure. Right, so there's there's definitely a. It's not like a one to one kind of thing implementing from an app perspective versus a foundational infrastructure.

275
00:39:29.250 --> 00:39:32.790
Dan Trevino: But I think just having the design document would allow us to

276
00:39:34.230 --> 00:39:39.750
Dan Trevino: Have multiple potential implementations that can work and figure out the best one after that.

277
00:39:40.980 --> 00:39:50.220
Jude Nelson: Yeah, that's one way to do it. The project is small enough that we can probably afford to have multiple implementations being built concurrently, even if only one of them gets used

278
00:39:51.720 --> 00:40:02.760
Jude Nelson: But do keep in mind though like that the recipient of this of this work and the person than the independent the entity that has to live with the decisions made now for a long, long time as PVC.

279
00:40:03.480 --> 00:40:08.850
Jude Nelson: And if the implementation doesn't behave in a way that PVC feels comfortable operating it

280
00:40:09.330 --> 00:40:19.110
Jude Nelson: As part of the public guy have then the works for not like the vast majority of us just wanting to see the benefit. So I'm just trying to emphasize the importance. I'm making sure that there's no well

281
00:40:19.890 --> 00:40:24.120
Jude Nelson: There's no surprises in the implementation, like we know what we're getting into that sort of thing.

282
00:40:26.190 --> 00:40:35.310
Jenny Mith: Okay, so it sounds like having multiple seemingly independent bounties isn't the way to go on this. That would probably lead to being

283
00:40:35.640 --> 00:40:43.140
Jenny Mith: To being pretty disjointed. But we're not opposed to having competition amongst submissions, or we would actually welcome.

284
00:40:43.920 --> 00:40:53.010
Jenny Mith: Different implementations. But we do need a detailed design document up front to guide the development of this and hopefully

285
00:40:53.670 --> 00:41:08.880
Jenny Mith: We get one really high or do we get several really high quality implementations from this bounty, but it would be one and it would reward. Maybe one developer or one team, rather than several across several bounties and to

286
00:41:08.940 --> 00:41:11.430
Dan Trevino: Just point them. Can we

287
00:41:13.140 --> 00:41:18.930
Dan Trevino: Your commitments from PVC to helping us with the architecture of the signing off on

288
00:41:19.770 --> 00:41:20.430
Jude Nelson: Architecture.

289
00:41:20.820 --> 00:41:30.330
Jude Nelson: I was just about to propose that we shouldn't get some engineers from PVC. Try to oversee this like to make sure the design and sound into the resource available to all the teams participating

290
00:41:33.090 --> 00:41:38.730
Jenny Mith: I have put here with the health of the blocks at PC and hearing team as a placeholder. I wasn't

291
00:41:40.470 --> 00:41:42.600
Jenny Mith: Specifically, but I figured I should put that in there.

292
00:41:44.100 --> 00:41:45.390
Dan Trevino: But we need a commitment from them.

293
00:41:45.600 --> 00:41:47.250
Jenny Mith: Yes, yeah.

294
00:42:01.980 --> 00:42:02.040
Jenny Mith: I'm

295
00:42:03.210 --> 00:42:06.630
Jenny Mith: Seemed like seems like a reasonable change that we could make to that section.

296
00:42:08.010 --> 00:42:19.770
Jenny Mith: Okay, so we'll have to revise that a little bit. But I do think that Jude's suggestion for measure of success is still relevant here. And I think the way that we would measure successes, if

297
00:42:20.640 --> 00:42:33.090
Jenny Mith: Is by the end of Q1 2021 or so, and the implementation that we come out with from this bounty program is good enough that PVC will feel comfortable integrating this

298
00:42:34.560 --> 00:42:36.900
Jenny Mith: Implementation into its production Daya

299
00:42:40.260 --> 00:42:47.850
Jude Nelson: More like that will require a sign off from like the dev ops team. For example, a PVC since they're going to be the ones who have to maintain it in production.

300
00:42:48.570 --> 00:42:48.930
Okay.

301
00:42:57.120 --> 00:42:57.600
Jenny Mith: Thanks, dude.

302
00:43:00.510 --> 00:43:03.240
Jenny Mith: I think this is pretty straightforward. The team section.

303
00:43:04.740 --> 00:43:11.490
Jenny Mith: The risk section, and I assume there are more tactical risks that I've missed here, so please others feel free to

304
00:43:14.040 --> 00:43:17.820
Jenny Mith: Add to this section. I said, our biggest risk is just running into an

305
00:43:18.390 --> 00:43:26.760
Jenny Mith: insufficient time. I think that these timelines. Don't feel ambitious now but they will be given a lot of the work that's happening in the background on stacks, you

306
00:43:27.510 --> 00:43:36.030
Jenny Mith: And when we talk about this work in terms of like it getting done in three months. It sounds doable. But I think that these projects.

307
00:43:36.660 --> 00:43:51.300
Jenny Mith: were asking for for funding to kickstart these projects next quarter, but the project's themselves are the projects in isolation are six months, plus type projects. So unless we're extremely disciplined and

308
00:43:51.870 --> 00:43:56.340
Jenny Mith: Committed to tracking our work and like a can ban board. I think that

309
00:43:57.270 --> 00:44:06.870
Jenny Mith: The progress here can get unwieldy. But the beauty of that is that we have a governance working group that is willing to take the lead on managing these projects so

310
00:44:07.680 --> 00:44:15.600
Jenny Mith: Written a little bit about that. There. And again, also up for debate, I think. Originally I had 3000 and what we were asking for

311
00:44:16.500 --> 00:44:25.530
Jenny Mith: The grant I move I bumped it up to 4000 just for the the bounties because I know that development of that proposal will probably take a lot of time so

312
00:44:25.890 --> 00:44:36.390
Jenny Mith: 3000 would go toward the bounty program for guy hub in boxes and 1000 would go toward miscellaneous costs supporting work for the other projects.

313
00:44:44.010 --> 00:44:44.610
Jenny Mith: Yeah, again,

314
00:44:46.380 --> 00:44:51.480
Dan Trevino: I don't know if anybody has specific time to devote to shepherding this but

315
00:44:52.920 --> 00:44:59.580
Dan Trevino: It might be valuable to have some money identified different directly for project management of this so

316
00:45:01.050 --> 00:45:01.860
Dan Trevino: who's on the call here.

317
00:45:04.710 --> 00:45:17.520
Dan Trevino: I don't know if anybody can, like, or would want to commit to that or if that's an option that we want to even add in, but it seems to me like you're saying that we need a way to track this stuff and I'm not

318
00:45:19.080 --> 00:45:27.720
Dan Trevino: Sure that a weekly meeting of the group is maybe the best way, as I'm just throwing it out there like maybe we add some specific funding for project management towards

319
00:45:28.230 --> 00:45:29.970
Dan Trevino: shepherding cream.

320
00:45:30.930 --> 00:45:39.870
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think that's, that's actually a good way to break down this miscellaneous 1000 so I actually have included

321
00:45:40.470 --> 00:45:50.820
Jenny Mith: That, you know, for each of these projects, you'd be representative of the governance group would take the lead on this and it should be no more than a couple of hours a week of really just checking in.

322
00:45:51.330 --> 00:46:07.830
Jenny Mith: But that time should be compensated. So, this I think this 1000 for miscellaneous costs could definitely go toward compensating a project manager for updating those combat boards, which, as we know from Jason and Juliet's experience is actually really time consuming.

323
00:46:09.570 --> 00:46:10.710
Dan Trevino: Right. And yeah.

324
00:46:10.740 --> 00:46:16.350
Jenny Mith: We obviously don't have to choose projects. Well, I mean, we can. We have six minutes left, but

325
00:46:17.430 --> 00:46:22.560
Jenny Mith: Project managers for each of these work streams. Can we can do that offline, too, I think.

326
00:46:24.030 --> 00:46:26.220
Dan Trevino: One final question, I think. And I'll shut up.

327
00:46:27.240 --> 00:46:39.720
Dan Trevino: Is. Let's say we create a valley and nobody applies for it. What happens with that funding, do we return it. Do we need to specify that in here. Does it go towards, I don't know.

328
00:46:45.930 --> 00:46:47.310
Jenny Mith: I really hope that people apply

329
00:46:49.380 --> 00:47:01.410
Jenny Mith: For what is the group think if we are, if we're unsuccessful in in marketing about dude. Part of this is marketing. The bounty program and getting people to participate. But if we're unsuccessful and do what, what should we do

330
00:47:02.100 --> 00:47:07.200
Jude Nelson: What if we just had an exploration like this boundary been retracted after six months.

331
00:47:08.580 --> 00:47:19.110
Jude Nelson: At which point, or, at which point, like, you know, PVC foundation or whoever is giving putting the money of has the right to proactively hire someone to do it or do it themselves, or something like that.

332
00:47:20.940 --> 00:47:28.440
Dan Trevino: Is there a way to like stipulate like the funding only like the actual bounty part only gets funded if there's a successful entry.

333
00:47:30.390 --> 00:47:31.890
Jude Nelson: I'm sorry, successful, what

334
00:47:32.160 --> 00:47:35.340
Dan Trevino: A successful entry for the bounty a successful submission

335
00:47:36.180 --> 00:47:43.200
Jude Nelson: Yeah, yeah. Like, we wouldn't pay for you sending us a picture of me and cat. For example, and calling that a guy of inbox.

336
00:47:43.500 --> 00:47:44.640
Dan Trevino: I would pay for that, but

337
00:47:47.610 --> 00:47:50.010
Jenny Mith: But Dan is clearly not going to leave that work stream.

338
00:47:52.350 --> 00:47:54.750
Dan Trevino: What I'm saying was like that.

339
00:47:56.160 --> 00:48:03.780
Dan Trevino: I don't know how the distribution happens but that part of the distribution would only happen on successful submission

340
00:48:04.770 --> 00:48:16.500
Jude Nelson: Yeah, like, I think, I think, to codify this is like the grant would have to have very specific success criteria that must be met and must be evaluable like you know quantifiable.

341
00:48:18.090 --> 00:48:20.490
Jude Nelson: Not subjective to the best possible extent.

342
00:48:22.770 --> 00:48:35.760
Jude Nelson: Like, how do we know the guy has been marked as working well here's like a battery of unit tests that must pass or something like that. Or maybe like somebody has to be able to build an MVP app that makes use of it in the app works. Does that, does that sort of thing work.

343
00:48:39.300 --> 00:48:43.380
Jude Nelson: Because, like, you know, if you can pass this test. And that means to get the money like the thing clearly is working.

344
00:48:44.520 --> 00:48:44.820
Yeah.

345
00:48:49.410 --> 00:48:49.890
Phillip Roe: Of course,

346
00:48:51.300 --> 00:48:51.870
Phillip Roe: Yeah.

347
00:48:54.090 --> 00:48:56.040
Jude Nelson: Be pretty bad, but yeah.

348
00:48:56.100 --> 00:49:16.320
Juliet Oberding: What about what about the potential review, we were talking about review by PVC and engineers. So without come after this person has or this group or team has created the MVP. So where does that fit in, because that needs to fit in, obviously, for it to be.

349
00:49:17.730 --> 00:49:20.040
Juliet Oberding: A solution that's going to be used.

350
00:49:20.910 --> 00:49:23.610
Jude Nelson: So what we could do is once the

351
00:49:24.390 --> 00:49:33.030
Jude Nelson: Grant entry has expired, and everyone who wanted to speak has submitted a candidate implementation, we can have PVC do a blind review of each submission

352
00:49:33.540 --> 00:49:43.560
Jude Nelson: Like whatever engineering PVC puts up for shepherding. The process can be responsible for reviewing each submission and then picking the one that they feel is the best implementation, but they won't know who the authors are

353
00:49:49.470 --> 00:49:52.290
Juliet Oberding: That sounds good. What about what does everyone else think

354
00:49:55.260 --> 00:50:04.200
Dan Trevino: Yeah, I think that's, that's good. Personally, I think we require their input at the beginning and at the end because I think like to make it super

355
00:50:07.830 --> 00:50:13.920
Dan Trevino: High higher chance of actually being useful. It's like we will want maybe even details down to like

356
00:50:14.460 --> 00:50:26.970
Dan Trevino: Coding styles or something like that. I don't know. I don't know if that's part of it, but we don't want somebody submitting something that works. And then it's going to require another hundred hours of, you know, cleanup to actually get submitted right so

357
00:50:28.620 --> 00:50:32.490
Dan Trevino: We need to get super detailed at the front end as well as have to review at the back end.

358
00:50:33.660 --> 00:50:41.160
Jude Nelson: Yeah, like this. I don't know if any of you guys on this call has done a Google Summer of Code when they were younger, like as a student.

359
00:50:42.360 --> 00:50:46.230
Jude Nelson: But this is this is starting to sound a lot like how this works. And it's a very successful program.

360
00:50:47.010 --> 00:50:59.520
Jude Nelson: I did it when I was an undergrad. The way it works is Google finances students through a grant proposal for about the same amount of money as $5,000 last time I did it over the course of three months.

361
00:50:59.850 --> 00:51:10.860
Jude Nelson: And it's a milestone based you as a student that are assigned a mentor who you check in with every so often they review your progress and they decide whether or not to release the next month's worth of payment.

362
00:51:12.570 --> 00:51:19.110
Jude Nelson: This kind of feels like we're we're recreating this process, which is, I think it's a good thing because it's a protocol as a proven track record.

363
00:51:19.740 --> 00:51:23.520
Jude Nelson: What we could do is we could have three check ins or something throughout the duration of the

364
00:51:24.180 --> 00:51:36.510
Jude Nelson: The grant program where the teams who sign up and submit their proposals for the implementation will check in with a PVC engineer Google's give them early feedback like are you on the right track. Like are we

365
00:51:37.140 --> 00:51:50.130
Jude Nelson: Do. Are you making the right design assumptions like can be course correct and that sort of thing. So, that way there's we don't so that we avoid the trap of, like, you know, three months later, like a team might go completely off base and be disappointed by it, and rightfully so.

366
00:51:51.960 --> 00:52:01.860
Jude Nelson: Seven like fixed fixed number of check ins at fixed points in time like to make sure that you're on the right track. I think it'd be a good thing to help maximize the maximize the chance of success for everybody.

367
00:52:06.660 --> 00:52:07.050
Phillip Roe: Agree.

368
00:52:08.880 --> 00:52:14.460
Jenny Mith: That's super helpful. So I seen that we're just said about time and this was really helpful. I

369
00:52:15.960 --> 00:52:24.330
Jenny Mith: Was at least the overview of this proposal, clear and it obviously everyone has time to and review this individually as well.

370
00:52:30.690 --> 00:52:33.870
Jenny Mith: As anyone just outright really upset when

371
00:52:36.480 --> 00:52:40.680
Juliet Oberding: I do have is this on the Dropbox or is this a new document.

372
00:52:42.090 --> 00:52:43.800
Jenny Mith: And this is

373
00:52:44.970 --> 00:52:46.170
Jenny Mith: The one that we're looking at now. Right.

374
00:52:46.350 --> 00:52:46.800
Julian.

375
00:52:48.120 --> 00:52:50.070
Juliet Oberding: Yes, that's what I'm yeah

376
00:52:50.580 --> 00:53:02.070
Jenny Mith: It's a, it's a new. It's a new doc, but I have included links to the other documents. So this doesn't get unwieldy can just refer to this doc from here on out. If you wanted to look at the brainstorming document in that line.

377
00:53:03.330 --> 00:53:05.640
Jenny Mith: In all yeah where we had other work.

378
00:53:06.660 --> 00:53:12.150
Jenny Mith: And I would say two outstanding things before we leave today.

379
00:53:13.230 --> 00:53:18.510
Jenny Mith: Well, number one, if there is anyone on this call, who feel strongly about volunteering to be

380
00:53:19.590 --> 00:53:30.840
Jenny Mith: A product manager for one of these work streams you please announce yourself. And I know that I'm happy to help with the code of conduct, just because I haven't looked into that a little bit.

381
00:53:31.200 --> 00:53:38.880
Jenny Mith: And so having another representative of the group to work. Work on that with would be great, and we

382
00:53:38.970 --> 00:53:39.360
Jenny Mith: Just need

383
00:53:41.880 --> 00:53:42.480
Jenny Mith: Which one

384
00:53:43.920 --> 00:53:45.180
Phillip Roe: The one that you mentioned, I can

385
00:53:47.040 --> 00:53:50.340
Phillip Roe: There's so many things I can do but I this

386
00:53:52.020 --> 00:53:53.160
Phillip Roe: Not all I can.

387
00:53:56.610 --> 00:53:58.950
Phillip Roe: assign me something that I don't know.

388
00:54:00.990 --> 00:54:02.490
Jenny Mith: That's dangerous, but okay.

389
00:54:05.430 --> 00:54:17.370
Jenny Mith: And everyone else can have a think about it and do we want to set. Do we want to set a deadline for when we want to get feedback in and have a final draft of this ready for submission

390
00:54:24.570 --> 00:54:36.210
Jason Schrader: Just a quick note for me on the on the project management side, you know, with everything I've been trying to help out with on GitHub and managing the boards and stuff. I'm happy to lend some time both to that into the code of conduct as well.

391
00:54:36.480 --> 00:54:48.660
Jason Schrader: You know, I think we saw idea of a can't be evil manifesto is something that's come up before I know that you and I and Dan have talked about it. So I think there's definitely some room to do that. So I'm willing to put some time towards this as well.

392
00:54:49.680 --> 00:54:50.850
Awesome. Thanks, Jason.

393
00:54:53.160 --> 00:55:05.100
Jenny Mith: Alright so well we don't have the meeting scheduled next Thursday. Since we're doing the semi monthly cadence and the next round of reviews for grants, as I understand it is Tuesday.

394
00:55:05.610 --> 00:55:05.820
Yeah.

395
00:55:06.930 --> 00:55:24.870
Jenny Mith: So, I mean, we can just do a lot of this asynchronously and and figure out on discord how we want to approve a final draft it at the moment. It looks like they're just a few tweaks to make plus getting that design document in for this guy have in boxes proposal.

396
00:55:26.100 --> 00:55:28.440
Jenny Mith: And that's it. Is there anything else that's like

397
00:55:29.910 --> 00:55:32.850
Jenny Mith: Anything else clearing about this proposal that we should address

398
00:55:39.900 --> 00:55:42.840
Phillip Roe: I think that the most important for for this is

399
00:55:45.090 --> 00:55:51.420
Phillip Roe: Because you know it's getting dangerous every week. I see things that I get getting out of the

400
00:55:52.680 --> 00:56:00.480
Phillip Roe: Of the usual community behavior so that we have to be careful with that. And that's where to protect

401
00:56:02.190 --> 00:56:11.940
Phillip Roe: The community. And that's one of the most important things and technical stuff that's matter. It's just a, we have to put the conduct on the Community.

402
00:56:14.220 --> 00:56:22.290
Jenny Mith: Got it. Yeah, I mean we should have a that's probably one of the easier things to manage, I think, though, we should have a working draft of that by the end of the year.

403
00:56:22.680 --> 00:56:37.170
Jenny Mith: Okay, and sorry for going over my four minutes, everyone. I think there's other stuff on the agenda. I don't know if we want to Ryan It's your call. If we want to keep going through that agenda, or are there other topics.

404
00:56:38.280 --> 00:56:49.380
Ryan Arndt: Just what's on the agenda there and Julia. There's a lot that was added to this this week and I knew with this conversation about the proposal, it would take a chunk of time. It's an important conversation to have. So

405
00:56:50.490 --> 00:56:52.710
Ryan Arndt: Enjoyed since you set the agenda. What do you think

406
00:56:55.170 --> 00:57:13.560
Juliet Oberding: Most of those things were things that had previously been on and there hadn't been some decisions made about them. And so that's why we brought them back again to see that we could make some decisions. We don't need to do that. This week we can put that forward to a next meeting.

407
00:57:14.370 --> 00:57:14.670
Okay.

408
00:57:15.930 --> 00:57:19.230
Ryan Arndt: Okay, that sounds good, so they can be copied over to me for two weeks.

409
00:57:22.920 --> 00:57:24.240
Ryan Arndt: I see Jason it. Okay, cool.

410
00:57:25.800 --> 00:57:26.160
Jason Schrader: Yeah.

411
00:57:28.020 --> 00:57:37.410
Jason Schrader: That is, we, we had this rolling agenda. Right. So we didn't want to miss out on our action items or discussion items, but just for, I guess, anybody looking at this recording, or anywhere else.

412
00:57:37.770 --> 00:57:41.820
Jason Schrader: Look at the tags and the issues and that's an easy way to see what those items are

413
00:57:42.240 --> 00:57:45.780
Jason Schrader: And my comment on making these agendas, a little more streamlined.

414
00:57:46.080 --> 00:57:58.230
Jason Schrader: Which is on on today's agenda, I think, between the two, we can find a way to balance our time for that because I don't want to waste a whole ton of time going over things, but we also don't want things to get lost that we've talked about in the past as well.

415
00:57:59.070 --> 00:58:04.800
Jason Schrader: Just try finding the best way we can all address that, but I'm fine with addressing that at a later time. I know we are running over

416
00:58:06.120 --> 00:58:12.900
Ryan Arndt: Okay. Sounds good. Okay, well we can copy those forward to the next agenda and then from here and looking forward to seeing

417
00:58:13.800 --> 00:58:27.270
Ryan Arndt: Things community grants application. Once it's all sorted out. So yeah, thanks for coming everybody and hopefully catch you on the stack ecosystem call later tonight it's at nine o'clock Eastern Time.

418
00:58:28.410 --> 00:58:34.470
Ryan Arndt: For Asia. So that's why it's later. But anyway, hey. Catch you later. Thanks. I was waving and I have no video on anyway.

419
00:58:35.970 --> 00:58:37.830
Ryan Arndt: I'll narrate that okay bye for now

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
