# 20200701 Governance Working Group Call 19

Jason Schrader: Okay, recording is live, and we are ready to go. 

Brittany Laughlin: So today is July 1 and today's working group call number 19 and we'll start off with the weekly updates. So if folks want to chime in with sort of the things that they've been working on over the past, the past week. 

Jason Schrader: I can do a quick stand up. So for my stuff. I've been working through the repo a little bit and I'm happy to say I got the GitHub Pages turned on. So we've got a little bit going on there, both with GitHub pages and we're using a plugin called Doxify to take all the content we have and spit it back out in a really pretty little format. So I will drop a link here for that. And otherwise just going to keep heading down our agenda. Would love to close out as many action items as possible. So some of that I'm hoping to do today, and if not today, we can do throughout the week. And that's it for me. 

Brittany Laughlin: I see a few more folks have joined. So, we're just doing stand ups. Go ahead. 

Phillip Roe: Good morning. Nice to see you. Good. Well, 

Jenny Mith: I can go, I'll give a quick one. Just stepped away. I made I incorporated edits to the blog that we worked on last week, so I would say that it's pretty much ready to go for publication. Brittany, I just wasn't sure how we wanted to do this on the  Stacks.org or website. So maybe that's something that we can just quickly decide on toward the end of the meeting. Also made some progress on Community moderation in discord with the bot that we discussed last week and looking forward to sharing progress on that.  And not much to share now, other than the bot is being worked on. But I think that we will be able to test that out with a small group pretty soon - in the next couple of weeks or so. So that's what I've been working on.  

Brittany Laughlin: Thanks, Jenny. Other stand up? 

Jude Nelson: Hi,  first time in this group. But I just commented on issue number one. On the repo. I have a draft of SIP000 based on that Google Doc that we all shared. Also have a slide deck that goes with it. It kind of gives like the high level TL;DR.  I'm happy to post as well. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay Jude, thank you. Any other stand up?

Phillip Roe: Yes. Just another week, a very active week, so… Lack of time to do what we want to do but studying  day by day, the governance issue is  getting more important. So I'm a bit  paranoid about it. And so I don't know. We have to keep on doing and advancing whatever we want, we can. Hard.  So,  I'm a bit worried about that but studying but not sufficiently.  What we are doing - what I'm doing. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, yeah. There's a lot to get done as we can see in the agenda. But I think, yeah, there's a lot of progress. But yeah, always more things coming up. Any other stand up?

 Brittany Laughlin: Great. So I'm, I'm happy to let me see if I can... Well, I'll try and share my screen so everyone can see the GitHub that we are looking at. Get that set up anytime. Just my quick update on the Foundation. And so we did host our board meeting, so I'll be sharing minutes on, you know, publishing those what happened. In the board meeting. We're still waiting on some of the bylaw feedback from our legal team. So, you know, we, I appreciate all the feedback on the GitHub issue about the bylaws, and I've actually, you know, shared those with our legal team to get their input on how we could like resolve some of those issues by changing some of the language. So once I have a working draft of that I will share that with this group here and also in the GitHub. 

Brittany Laughlin: I’m having trouble with screen share. So the next part of the agenda is around action items. And so we have a number of action items. And what's about out here, I can go through them one by one. Let me see if I can actually the shirt [<unknown]. Oh. Okay. Thanks. Much faster. Yeah, so the actions items…

Brittany Laughlin: I'll talk about just like the Stacks Foundation. So this call for board nominations for, nominations are still open. The process has not been formalized yet of how to sort of accept those nominations that so that's something to work on this week. Now that you know in the board game last week, sort of talking about potentially adding new board members in the board was on board for that. The Stacks bylaws, I kind of give the update there and you know I think once we have a a better draft, including all the feedback, then we'll be able to present this to the community for feedback and then present them to the board to be voted in. Meeting roles, responsibilities and bounties and I think Jason you've been working on this, but if others have been collaborating and you wanna give an update there? 

Jason Schrader: Yeah. So what I'll do is I'll pull that one up real quick and some sharing the screen here. And I think we're pretty much all in agreement that we that we like this structure - that we were thinking about it. Basically sets up a moderator role who will kind of steward the entire call.  You have a secretary role that has to do with the notes and updating some of the GitHub resources afterward. And then the updates - somebody to do the updates and that was something that actually Juliet had offered to do as well. So we want to be able to publish an easy to read or easy to digest version of everything that we were… We were doing it regularly in our, in our little updates repo, but it fell off. And we just want to see what the best flow to get an easy result without requiring too much work would be. 

Jason Schrader: And then looking at the two roles of Secretary and whoever would do the updates is something that we would like to look at as a potential bounty candidate in the future. I think it'd be fun to give people a little incentive to spend the time to do it consistently and come out the same every time. But to actually making any decisions around this, I think we're pretty close to just putting it in place for now. And there is a placeholder in each issue… or I'm sorry, each agenda issue that shows just who the moderator, who the Secretary would be each week and we could also name the updates person for something like that. But just want to see the best way to get this to start going and then once we've got a regular process we can definitely close out that issue. I'm curious if anybody has any comments or wants to add any more on that one. 

Phillip Roe: Looks fine. The treasurer, there's no need of treasurer, of course.  Yes. It's the Foundation will be…

Jason Schrader: That is why I left that one out. But you know I'm open to talking about different roles that I think make sense from the community perspective. I think treasurer more going to be handled by the board and from there, we can see what parts that we would be more involved with. And the other big thing about this is I really wanted to see it help keep our GitHub updated as as much as possible. I think we have a really good flow going and if we can continue that and and to get more people involved, and it would be helpful. So I just tried to put a little structure to it. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think adding more folks to GitHub, yeah I think we have a good process… you know, kind of figuring out the best way to make sure that we keep everything up to date. And So if you haven't joined the GitHub yet, definitely please request to join in so that you can make updates and comment there as well. It's been working well. 

Phillip Roe: It looks nice. I mean, it's because you already also consider the way to to implement that I had to write it and where to put it. And  I need you. We have a video how to process that video, and also to publish that video and get older [<unknown]. It's quite a detail. So it's very useful. I think that it's a, it's a good way to to put in practice where you are putting an effective into practice. 

Jenny Mith: Jason, I may have missed this and during your your update on on this bit, but did we ever talk about having like a short training session (for lack of better word), where you sort of go over these different roles and have a GitHub… I remember talking about it at a previous meeting and just having like a short session. where we go over how all this is done on GitHub, so that folks could just be more familiar with it and sign up for different roles and rotate between everybody in the group to help out. 

Jason Schrader: Actually, uh no, the last thing we talked about was that I'm definitely open to helping anybody walk through. I was due to reach out to Phillip (which I actually still haven't done) to go over that standard operating procedure. But let me let me jump into this link that I have here really quick for the, for the Doxify thing. So what I just did today is we talked about taking our resources that are there across all the repos and putting it into a website form that’s a little easier to work with. And this is just the first draft, just turned it on kind of feel for it right here. But I think as we get this part finalized, which I will have up shortly. I mean, we're pretty much there, then I'd be happy to do some kind of walk through or workshop where we can say, hey, here's how you do this part, here's how you do that part. I just figured the standard operating procedures that we have are going to change slightly with how this works. So I wanted to get this piece done first. And ideally, I would love for this to live at resources.stacks.org. Which is a, it's a minor change, but it's going to require some coordination between myself and Brittany or somebody who has access. So just some little things that I wanted to get done beforehand, but I am totally open to doing something like that and I'll add it to my list as well. 

Jenny Mith: Well, thank you. And all this looks really great on the resources side. 

Brittany Laughlin: Thank you, Jason for putting this all together. It's really helpful.

Jason Schrader: It's been, it's been a community effort too. I mean, I've been trying to grab everything from discord and these other outlets and every everybody has put a lot into this. So I want to turn it into something we can really use and and put out there to represent us. 

Brittany Laughlin: Now the next item is around the survey. And I know that this is something that Lane has been taking a lead on (and he’s unable to join this call) but I think he has up his update here. Yeah. Can see right there, “I factored in the latest feedback and posted a few more open questions to this doc as comments, which could still use some feedback. This is waiting for the blog posts to be published and for details on the town hall as we want the sign up for this to be the CTA at the end...” Yeah. So I think, you know, getting a town hall plan so that that creates a call to action and but if you have more feedback on his blog posts, it looks like it's issue number 60. 

Jason Schrader: And I'll pull that one up real quick. I think the biggest thing we're waiting on is we wanted to do the blog post and then the email. So the email could look back at the blog post. And then talk a little about the Town Hall if we think we're ready to think about when to schedule that or do that. And I believe we were talking about doing that, like once… Was it once a quarter? I know it's a separate item. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think once it once a quarter. And that's what BlockStack PVC [<unknown] does. Actually, Jenny hosted a town hall on Friday, which is great. 

Jenny Mith: We started doing them on a monthly cadence, but I am happy to take lead on helping us plan that just; obviously it would require a little bit of discussion about how we'd want it to run and what our vision for it is. But yeah, happy to take the lead on coordinating it if if that is an action item or if I'm like being too premature here, let me know. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, be great to get something scheduled and then pick a date. Go ahead, Jason.

Jason Schrader: So same thing. I was gonna say we have it down as a discussion item, just because we haven't decided what we were going to do just yet, but I think with the idea of doing it quarterly, let's get the first one scheduled and do what we need to do in between. 

Brittany Laughlin: Any other feedback on the survey or these tasks. Like I said I've complete update sort of covers and if you want to go into any of the materials he talked about, those are in issue number 59 and number 60. 

Phillip Roe: Actually, the… Following up with the survey respondents. I think that at least we could invite them for this governance Town Hall. So that's maybe probably the first activity that we can do with them. So then then everything's put under on that effort. So we don't have any so many efforts. Just one effort to put all that together.  And also the, the, the results that we're going to be presenting at Town Hall, of course, and then all that we decide what to do with that information. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so I think that sounds like some of the discussion items like the Town Hall meeting we’ll put that in with the survey and events governance landing page. I don't know if there's an update on that. 

Jason Schrader: Actually the link I shared and what I just kind of showed off here on that, on that resources tab. This is the startup. So there's some room, we can customize this and do a lot with it. The biggest advantage to what we're trying to do here is just by updating the resources in the GitHub. So specifically on the resources page of stacks.gov there, it will automatically update the website. So that's the, the bigger goal is that we can do the same management we've been doing and we can do everything else that we have here. But it gets printed pretty out to a new format that's a little bit easier for people to digest. So that's, that's the one I'm working on and we can - We'll be able to close it out pretty soon, but for now we can just say it's in progress. 

Brittany Laughlin: And then the blog post, I think Jenny, I spoke this in her stand up. So I don't know if there's anything new around the draft blog post. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay, so I'll move on to the meeting conference software selection. And so this was we had some discussion in our discord about choosing whether we want to continue to use Zoom going forward or switch to a different Conference line. I don't think we found a perfect solution yet so we may start trialing. But right now, you know, Zoom does provide a lot of it. Easy infrastructure around recording and and low friction to get on board, but I think you know if anyone has experience with any of these other video conferencing - please like add comments to this or kind of weigh in if you if you've had really good at or experiences that mean that we should avoid it. 

Jason Schrader: Yes, and I literally just added this comment right before the meeting. So I don't think anybody has seen this particular part yet but a little while ago I circled an article and we were just saying, What are some open source alternatives that are out there? What is something we could get behind? And it's a harder question than I thought. 

Jason Schrader: So we've been looking at a few things. And these would be some of the contenders that I found both from that article and searching. I haven't done a full on comparison of each yet. So I don't know if all of them would work, but I am really curious both about Apache Open Meetings. Jammy [?} which looks a lot like Jitsi, but has some really cool features and and really backed by the GNU [?] project. And then Eight by Eight Meetings Pro I have that on the list. Since we didn't have very much luck with Jitsi in particular. I was curious if it's worth looking at the paid plan for their parent company because we would be paying for Zoom anyway. Why not pay the company that stewards, Jitsi. So those are some of the ideas I had that I threw in here. And my thought was to put this just to a little emoji vote in the channel or something. So we can figure out what to try for next week. So I'm willing to take the lead on that today. 

Phillip Roe: Last night I find another one we can test also. Is something… “I…” something but  they’re coming up with several new ones. So probably that's an evolving topic or emerging topic, whatever. Because if people are looking for different options. 

Jason Schrader: Awesome. If you can throw just a link to that one in the comments there or if you know if you can find it again Is it just starts with an “I”, then I would love to look at it next to the other ones. Definitely. Definitely curious to see what we all find and I agree, it's, it's an expanding area, but there are different requirements, right? Like is it going to require our own self-hosted server because that's going to be a technical requirement. Is it going to require, you know, the actual payments or how does it do the recording? There's some questions that we really want to answer there. But I think at the same time it's it's worth looking - it's worth trying. 

Brittany Laughlin: And then I think there's… Harold shared some documents from Fab Academy and Two Row Wampum and I think he just was requesting feedback about those two things on this call and joined and so If you get a chance to read through those, I think there's some really great content just thinking about governance and furthering our research. 

Brittany Laughlin: Now moving on to the open discussion - we have a number of sort of action items around these... So the town hall meeting. I think we've we've talked about that: creating, you know, setting a date and then being able to work with Jenny on building out the infrastructure for that. And then I think using the time between to figure out the exact agenda on that. You know, the types of things that we want to update the community on. The new… I'm going through here…, the new GitHub labels for project management. And so I think we discussed this last call, but you know, Jason's been working to create tags so it's very easy to see the things that are action items, or where things need feedback. So if you go to the GitHub page, you can see those.

Jason Schrader: Yes. And actually, I think we're ready to close out that issue and I can go ahead and take that one off the agenda. But here's a quick overview of what some of those look like. And I know we talked about them last week as well, but just some quick ones to say, hey, these are meeting items. And then as we come into like resource or notes updates, I also just want to start encouraging like hey, these are good first issues or or help wanted or things like that. So just just another organizational step. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay. Some of these needed discussion topics are similar to some of these action items. I just wanted to maybe create space if there's anything that people wanted to talk about specifically or get feedback on out of this list. 

Jenny Mith: Sure. How do we feel about finalizing or closing the loop on on this first blog and and can we talk about the process for publication and promotion as well? 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think. I guess maybe where are you at with that: are the edits done, is it more about location? And that from the Foundation side, we have a blog on the Foundation website that we can utilize but we may also decide that, you know, hosting on a decentralized application maybe is is a good fit. If it's going to be commut… like from the community, but I'm open to ideas on that. 

Jenny Mith: Yeah.  So I've incorporated all edits and if everyone is comfortable with where the blog is at, I think that it's  pretty much ready to go. And maybe there are some final tweaks that that folks want to make, but I don't think there's anything that is major there that can't be fixed in a couple of seconds. So I assume that this would go on the stacks.org website but and I hadn't thought about having it on a on a different application. So that's something that would be good to discuss here.  And just because it's an intro blog I, it can definitely be in a few places, but maybe having it on an official property would be a good idea. Yeah. 

Brittany Laughlin: Well yeah, I can work with you on publishing that in our, on our stacks website blog. 

Jenny Mith: Great. Okay.  And yeah, so I can work with you directly for me on this and and I guess we can we can have it published by the end of the week. The other issue is that it is a short week with the holiday and say, I don't know how much attention this blog would get. I know we had originally planned to have it published  yesterday, but it makes sense to talk about it, some of the details on the call today. I mean, it's ready to go, so we can publish it tomorrow if we wanted to.  But I didn't know if folks had strong feelings about maybe publishing it next week instead because of the holiday or whether it doesn't really matter. My sense is that it would probably be fine tomorrow, actually, but wanted to put that out there. 

Jason Schrader: I vote for sooner than later. 

Jenny Mith: Great.

Phillip Roe: I agree. We will have an Independence Day this month is September, so we don't worry about it. 

Jenny Mith: I'm not too worried about it this year, either. I'm being honest. And okay, cool. So yeah, I'll just connect with Brittany on that and we'll give an update on when it's going to be out in the discord group tomorrow. 

Brittany Laughlin: Any other topics that you want to get feedback on or talk about here. 

Jason Schrader: I just really quick question for you, Jude. On the SIP000 proposal that you put out: Did you want that to be a part of these repos, did you imagine or what do you think is the purpose of that stacks.org repo versus the stacks.gov repo? 

Jude Nelson: Ah. So at some point the code for the stacks blockchain needs to migrate out of a organization controlled by PVC and into one controlled by the Foundation. I'm not, I'm not married to stacks.org per se. I just went ahead and grabbed one and then created this SIPs repo within that. Happy to put that in the stacks.gov if that's what people want to do though. 

Jason Schrader: I think it's a it's a small detail, I was just more curious what what we were thinking in the beginning here. So we'll, we'll keep things as they are, and we'll move them or change them as we need to. I don't, I don't think there's an issue to do that right now. Just curious. Thank you. 

Phillip Roe: So did you written… do you speak about, you know, the being in a in a meeting board meeting last week or or not? I missed that. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah. Yeah. Yes. I'm happy to share it, the minutes, so I just have to type in that basically we covered the, you know, kind of the priorities for the Foundation. So that's something that I shared in a forum post. We went over those with the board and we also like talked about the grants program and and I kind of dropped to the what the grants program could look like. So that's another to-do for me to share that out. I think I was largely a discussion, so just getting thoughts on paper to share with this group here. And then, you know, just like the scale and the size of the grants program as our initial stuff and then being able to grow it over time - especially as we can do our grants in stacks. Because right now, due to regulation, we can't issue any of those grants in STX. We have to do it in a alternative so like US dollars or bitcoin. So we want to be able to transition the program from US dollars or bitcoin into Stacks with the launch of Stacks 2.0 just getting feedback on that. 

Brittany Laughlin: And then also at the board - so, you know, asking the board about adding new members. You know, proposed the idea of a community board seat as well as these new board nominations ,and they were comfortable with adding additional members to the board in that way. So those are kind of the three categories that we talked about. It was all very, very positive that, you know. They're very excited about what's been happening. We shared with them the work that's been happening in this group as well. So I think that was positive on things. But with the board nominations, they, you know, are, are accepting of us adding more, but now it's kind of like the process of, okay, how do we want to consider those new nominations. Is it, you know, profiling the potential candidates that is both people that have been nominated and people who are interested to the community, or is there, you know, some other sort of process that you know, helps us recruit like the best people but also gives the community really you know, a voice in all of it. 

Jason Schrader: If I remember right from the issue too, we talked about the we're going to confirm the nominations and then possibly share that list with with the community is is the next step, right? 

Brittany Laughlin: Yes. So with that, I have the nominations. I think I'm happy or, you know, I'd be curious your feedback on just… Some people who were nominated don't know that they were nominated. So if those names should be shared, or, or maybe it's shared in a smaller group like this, but just thinking about how to be mindful that some people whose names are on there have no idea that this is… That their name would be on some list versus those who have like actively been and, you know, actively know that they're nominated. 

Jason Schrader: And I think that makes sense to reach out to the people first. Just to say, like, “Hey, you're on the list, and we're going to discuss the list on next week's call” or something like that. Just to give them an easy way to to know they're out there instead surprising them. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah. Great. 

Jason Schrader: Awesome. 

Jason Schrader: Right. I'm sorry. I guess I had one more follow up question to that. So, how long were we planning to keep those nominations open and when do you think we could present those names like if we were to try and notify those people or anything else? Do we have a proposed timeline for that? 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think now that we have the, you know, sort of sign off from the Board that we can add more people - I think that that was, you know, just wanted to clear that first and and then now that that happened last week, we can actually look at the nominations. So yeah, I think, sharing the list as of next week, like I said earlier on, I think this idea of rolling nominations, we can increase the board. I think there will be different members of the board. I think we can always have you know consideration of new people. 

Brittany Laughlin: And even if they aren't able to join maybe as a board member because of capacity, there may be opportunities for them to join like you know, we've kind of roughly said, “Oh, maybe there's technical committees that help weigh in on new SIPS or an Economic Committee, who's thinking a lot about Treasury or monetary policy.” People who we want to pull into our community, but maybe it isn't through the board seat. It's through different like groups like that. So I think the idea of having rolling nominations can help feed into a lot of the the like types of opportunities that will open up. But yeah, I think, delivering on this first wave, providing the names next week after I check with the people who've been nominated, and then we can use next week's call to discuss that we can make that an action item. 

Jason Schrader: Awesome. I have that noted and I'm happy to help with that. 

Phillip Roe: Thank you. Brittany for your briefing. 

Jason Schrader: So I think one one other discussion item we could get a little into today that we've had on our list for a little while is this Fireside Chat series idea. And we were basically just proposing the idea of bringing in outside people to do a regular Fireside Chat. Maybe discuss governance and context of what we're doing. I think it would be great to as a follow up to the bog and some of these start public efforts. Now that we have the website live will have the blog will have some of the basic setup and we'll be ready to start something like this. So I was just curious what anyone thought on this or how we can make this a little more of an action item and start thinking about it. 

Phillip Roe: I think that we have to make the first move. I mean, it's decide which one is easy to do and not so complicated and just do it. And then that will be a way to to start. Whatever we do this is good. I mean, it's an… Well of course you know it has to be aligned, but whatever we start doing is, it will be useful – no? And as Jenny has done with this reading… you call it reading or listening the video presentations of different people have done - Probably is a good idea to, to, to start with something like that. Not not a video but probably an interview and talk with somebody  Let's do it. 

Phillip Roe: Probably Juliet could help us there [with a PMO era][<unknown].  Was one of  some better, more accessible. Also this economy of solidarity, that's another concept and this new thing that coming up and probably could could help us understand how ecosystem works and how we can develop that. So that's a lot of new think, think especially influenced by the by the media [<unknown] that has has gone back to the roots of what the human beings are. So that's something that we can take advantage of that and it will be easy to to invite in this case, in the situation. 

Jenny Mith: Do we have any context from and when this idea first came about for what we wanted to achieve with this? Not that everything has to be about being productive or it has to have a goal, but was this around a collective learning, like the reading group that Philip mentioned for the business models group or… And what we're hoping to achieve with the fireside chat series? 

Jason Schrader: I think the idea was just to generate some discussion around these ideas that we're putting forth and everything else with some of the leaders in some of these areas. And the fact you mentioned the reading series with the business model group, I was just thinking about that, you know. We're getting through each of these large topics and I know Patrick does some excellent podcast was with some people as well. I wonder if we could look at maybe aligning those two a little bit if we had any topics on on governance and then we also just had that radical exchange event that we posted a whole ton of videos from. So I think the idea was more to just associate our name and say, not only are we doing this effort, we're looking at everybody but that we also want to reach out to some of those leaders in these areas and say, ‘What would you give us advice on our project?’ or ‘What do you think of what we're doing?’ or ‘What can we learn from you?’ in that sense. That was at least the feeling that I got from the original discussion. 

Jenny Mith: Cool, yeah.  A podcast or podcast series or I mean the series in general sounds really really great for that. Thanks for sharing context reason.  

Phillip Roe: But it's related with business models because actually is how we we… Now, and since I understand what more clearly how the ecosystems, um building, oh how to say, infrastructure [<unknown] your helps you to build this ecosystem. And well, at least this is is trying to do, then, which are the principles and the basis of how it’s going to work. So in that sense, is still time to to establish that before it gets frozen or getting gets made of concrete or, that is going to be moved. So that's that's more or less the idea, inspiration. So it's has a kind of business model influence but not only that is just the how this is a compilation of reciprocity, it should how it works and and how this ecosystem can benefit of all this interaction and then generates all the the prosperity for everybody and all people get benefit -  incentives for everybody, or how that will deal and etc so  And then, well actually, all that is a new way of doing it. Well, we are learning - everybody's learning. 

G. M.: MayI I say that the reading group, the working, the meetings for the from the Business Model Working Group are very successful because we are first: Provided the previous information of so information and we discussed on something that we know we are going to discuss about. And I think that's what helps maybe people from the community who are not already engaged in some group to participate. And that's what I think is very interesting, could be very interesting for also for governance. I mean, if we these fire chats are on, it would be nice to to have the community in being involved in, in a way that they could really participate and make the contact, not just listen. The podcast is a very good idea, but at the same time, it would be nice to have this this kind of engagement or interaction from participation, from the community. 

Jason Schrader: Excellent night. I noted some of that down just to just to say that it definitely went went into my notes. And I think that's a really good point. You know, the way we've been able to get people involved in reading sessions there. It's been it's taken I mean, it seems like people are really enjoying it. I guess is what I'm trying to say. So if we could do something similar. That's an interesting thing to consider and I definitely haven't noted down. I like it. 

Brittany Laughlin: Any other comments or topics that you want to discuss here? I think… nine minutes left. 

Jude Nelson: I had a slide deck. I could share really quick. If you all would find it interesting about the proposal for SIP-000 

Jason Schrader: Sure. Let's check it out. 

Jude Nelson: …get it up here. 

Phillip Roe: Excellent. 

Jude Nelson: Cool. Can y'all see it?

Phillip Roe: Yes, that's a very important question to ask, especially beginning of meeting. I had an issue last week on that. 

Jude Nelson: I think there might be like a little black bar at the top. But other than that, everything's looks clear? 

Phillip Roe: Yeah, it’s all right. 

Jude Nelson: Alright, cool. So one thing I've been doing just in the background has been working with the Google Doc that Lane shared a while back on notes on governance proposals and trying to spin that into a formal SIP draft which can be, which in turn will serve as the basis for how to produce more SIPs as well as to formalize the Committee's and individuals responsible for the ratification process. And I just wanted to briefly go through it here with this short little slide deck. There's three parts of this: the first of which is just the draft definition of what the process is; the second part is the activation and lifecycle for individual SIPs. And the third part is the relevant committees responsible for ushering the SIP through its life cycle and the responsibilities that they have. And the caveat up front is all this is subject to change – it’s draft status. Comments and feedback are highly encouraged. It's based on both feedback from this working group from the previous minutes as well as from how other successful open source projects, not all of which are blockchains, have managed to govern themselves.

Jude Nelson: So why formalize this? Why have a SIP at all? Blockchains are unique among distributed systems and that upgrades, system-wide upgrades can be potentially very contentious. And that's because a blockchain is more than just a piece of software. It's also its people. It's also the people who use it. And if you want your upgrade to go smoothly, it has to happen with the consent of its people. 

Jude Nelson: So a formalized SIP process helps that the agreed upon way to propose and discuss system wide upgrades, as well as an agreed upon way to execute them. Critical to this are ways to measure consent, like, to what extent the community wants the upgrade to happen as well as to resolve conflicts that may arise. And it's important that we have a formal process for this so that everybody knows what they can do to help and so that decisions that get made, as well as the people making those decisions, are held accountable and made in public. And crucially, the process is designed to be as inclusive as possible, all of its Stacks users. And that's again because blockchains succeed because of their people. And not all users are developers and not all developers are core developers. So it's important to give everyone a seat in the process. 

Jude Nelson: The goals of the process. First and foremost, if we want to make any large scale changes to the blockchain, we would want it to be reviewed by the relevant X domain experts before getting applied. So that way we don't have like for example a freewheeling SIP that tries to make a billion stacks out of nowhere, or something crazy like that. In addition, we want there to be a way by which discussions on upgrades, as well as feedback from said experts is public and discoverable, so that we all learn and benefit from the, from the process. And the curation process. The process is fundamentally curative. We want it to be the case that the SIPs are all held in one place and that the SIPs collectively given well defined an unambiguous definition of what the Stacks blockchain is and what it's supposed to do. As well as how it's supposed to operate and how changes get to that process can be applied on. 

Jude Nelson: That said, the process is also open. Anyone can submit a SIP and anyone can participate in the governance by helping to edit, review, and activate the SIPs. So that said, in the proposal process, all SIPs have the following types of properties. Alll SIPs will have a type and by ‘type’ I just mean we need to know what, how the SIP is proposing… How the SIP is proposing to affect the Stacks ecosystem. There'll be initial candidates for the types of SIPs. Those would be: the consensus SIPs, standard track technical SIPs, operation SIPs, meta-SIPs which govern the set process itself and informational SIPs, which simply provide helpful information or supplementary material. 

Jude Nelson: In addition, I think that SIPs should each have one or more considerations formally listed out in them. And all the consideration tells us is, who should weigh in on this SIP. For example, the initial candidates I had written in the proposal are a technical consideration, an economic consideration, a governance consideration, and ethics consideration, and a diversity consideration. And individuals as part of the CIP ratification process, who list themselves as experts or having strong and well thought out opinions on different considerations will have a way to voice them and have their feedback incorporated into this SIP. 

Jude Nelson: In addition, each SIP has a status and that's simply where it is in its life cycle. Like it's a draft, is it under consideration, is it going to be ratified, etc. And I have a flowchart and a few few slides that describes that. 

Jude Nelson: And finally, each SIP has an activation section. So one thing that is important for the SIP authorship process as well as the process for proposing it, is to describe how you know whether or not it's activated. So the steps and criteria to determine that the stacks community is okay with the SIP going forward. And this process, by the way, is not rigid. It's meant to be extensible. Through the considerations here, you can create a meta style SIP – sorry, a meta type SIP with a governance consideration to change any of the above here - with a appropriate activation section that is equitable that gives everybody a chance to provide feedback on it. 

Jude Nelson: Um, so to make all this work, I'm proposing that this is all, I'm pretty sure this is all old hat. I’m pretty sure this is all in the Google doc. I’m proposing that there are three types of committees responsible for curating the SIPs. So what would happen is a SIP author, somebody who has a cool idea and just wants to start the ball rolling on on getting that idea incorporated into the greater stacks blockchain ecosystem, will simply write up a SIP and submit it to a SIP editor for acceptance. Crucial to the authorship of the SIP is the inclusion of an equitable activation section. So like, an example of this could be “There will be a vote on whether or not the SIP gets accepted.” But an unacceptable version will be like “This SIP gets accepted no matter what, I'm the dictator” like that would not be okay. 

Jude Nelson: Um, so the first body of individuals in the governance process would be the body of SIP editors and all that they do is they make sure that the SIP that is inbound from authors are well formed or they are novel, they don't have… they don't repeat something that a previous SIP has done. And the editors work with the author to make the SIP ready for consideration. In addition, the editors work in the background asynchronously to try to grow their ranks. Like to go find new SIP editors and that's their governance responsibility, in addition to making SIP, making sure that SIPs gets into a form that's ready for review. 

Jude Nelson: Once a SIP is ready for review, one or more advisory boards, which are specific to each consideration this Sip has. So a technical advisory board or a governance advisory board or an economics advisory board takes a look at all the accepted SIPs in a timely manner, that the editors mark has accepted. And they can move that SIP to recommended status. So they use their expertise to provide a public recommendation for or against a particular SIP, and that in turn is taken into consideration by the next committee. 

Jude Nelson: So the steering committee sits at the end of this pipeline here from the advisory boards and the editors, and all the steering committee does is they pick the subs a subset of recommended SIPs that can be activated and they oversee the activation of that SIP per the activation section within that SIP. So the steering committee is not capricious or arbitrary in what it does. It's just following the procedure in the activation section of the step to make sure that there's sufficient buy-in from the community before it's considered to be part of the canonical set of SIPs. In addition, the steering committee has a governance responsibility of recognizing working groups, so informal groups of users will get together and publish advice or submit opinions on SIPs, recognizing them into formal advisory boards so that they can have their own consideration for future SIPs acceptance. 

Jude Nelson: And finally, paramount in all of this is the ecosystem itself. The affected parties of each SIP choose to or choose not to accept changes and the way by which this happens is described in the activation section of the SIP. For example, a consensus SIP might have a on-chain voting activation section and a protocol that the ecosystem of miners and users would have to execute technically in order for the SIP to be ratified. But a governance set might just require a vote from the majority of members, members of the Foundation for example. In addition, the governance responsibility of ecosystem participants, if they aren't already in one of these committees, is to run for office. 

Jude Nelson: But the takeaway here is there's this inbound funnel from authors that just refine and rarify SIPs to get them into higher and higher quality with more and more consideration. But ultimately the set of users who make up the ecosystem decide which ones get activated and which ones do not. 

Jude Nelson: So that said, I mentioned that there's the status of each SIP and this is the draft proposal, the proposal for the SIP lifecycle here. Every SIP starts out as a Draft and then once a SIP editor signs off that this is a well-formed SIP, it gets accepted. And then an advisory board, depending on what considerations that SIP has, will sign off on it if it's appropriate and makes sense, it's technically sound, it's ethically sound, etc. moves the step to Recommended status. Once all SIPs considerations are recommended by their relevant advisory boards, the steering committee will sign off, and then the SIP transitions to Activation in Progress, at which point we just track the SIP based on its activation section to see that whether or not it goes through or not. 

Jude Nelson: And once the ecosystem participants move to activate, the SIP transitions to Ratified status. At any point in each [<unknown], so it can simply can be rejected for one reason or another. Maybe it's not up to snuff for acceptance. Maybe it's technically unsound. Something like that. At which point the author would just resubmit the SIP as a new draft and we would just work with them to make sure that the SIP’s well-formed before it reaches activation. But once a SIP is activated, like once the activation processes is is kicked off, a SIP can either become obsolete (like let's say it doesn't get taken up); or it gets replaced by a better SIP that's competing with it; or it gets withdrawn by the author. But the key difference here for this part of the flow chart is that activation can only happen once. If the activation fails, for whatever reason, then you have to start the process over and you get a new SIP number and the previous SIP is simply marked as withdrawn. And the reason there is just to make sure that we make progress on this. If you don't find SIPs spinning forever and ever and a loop where they never quite get activated, but they're constantly stuck in this process. And that's just to make sure to move the let's just make sure that we move the process along. And that the community doesn't get sidetracked for there being many, many, many concurrent SIPs to consider. 

Jude Nelson: That said, each of these committees is open membership and transparent. It's pretty straightforward to become a SIP editor. The proposal I have in the document is that we maintain an invite tree of editors. So an editor can invite another person to be an editor and sponsor them. It makes sure that they understand the editor responsibilities. Then that person can go on to invite other people, etc. And then to make sure that this is a good faith and that everyone's accountable here, we preserve the invite tree in GitHub. So that if you know if someone invites someone who's going to act maliciously or in bad faith, we can kick that person out and also pick the person who invited them. 

Jude Nelson: And to become a member of the advice of an advisory board is pretty straightforward. All you would do is form a working group which is just an informal gathering of people to voice opinions or to take under consideration SIPs for ratification. And these can be, these working groups can be formed at the drop of a hat. What the steering committee should do is they should invite working groups to submit SIPs to declare new considerations, so that working group can then formally give advice and consent for, for SIPs that are under consideration. And then other SIP authors can explicitly ask for that group of people’s review on a SIP.

Jude Nelson: Like let's say there's a consideration for something like an ERC - like a particular format for a smart contract. There could be at some point be a consideration trap for ERC type smart contracts, and that ERC smart contract consideration would be reviewed by individuals who initially submitted their, their desire to review SIPs of that nature. And this is just a way to help connect SIP authors with people who have domain expertise to review them. 

Jude Nelson: And finally, the steering committee. This is easily the most open ended section in the structure for me and I see that there's still issues in the governance section as well. Um, the initial proposal is would be that we would just have three members: one from PVC, one from the foundation, one from the community. All subject to change. And of course, it's going to be very important that we do a good job of picking the community members to some of the steering committee. I believe that there's a few ideas rattling around, I can write those out as well. And the SC should not be bound to just three individual people. This is just a way to get it off the ground. I could see their SC growing, growing to have, you know, many individuals on board for different purposes and there could even be offices within the SC depending on how big it gets. 

Jude Nelson: And this is kind of inspired to me at least by processes like how the FreeBSD project has their technical governance board or how the Debian [<unknown] project has the, has the stuff from the public interest and the President's that that helps out, run the process for the greater set of Debian contributors. 

Jude Nelson: But that's it. Thanks for your time. This this document that draft SIP-000 is linked on governance issue number one. I just went ahead and registered stacks org as a GitHub organization. But, as Jason mentioned earlier, we can move it over to stacks gov if you all feel that would be appropriate.  But yeah, it's on GitHub. And it's public, and I welcome any and all comments. 

Brittany Laughlin: Thank you. 

[overlapping voices]

Phillip Roe: Not less work, more work, more work to do in the future. 

Jason Schrader: Well, what we're seeing here is the beginning, right and and what I love about that is starting to see some of these formal processes come together and say, like, this is the way we can actually start doing things. So it'll be, it'll be interesting because in the beginning, we do have to lay some groundwork, but I think once we get this moving we have a process in place, it won't feel so cumbersome. 

Jude Nelson: Yeah, yeah. We just got to get past the first little bit of friction. But then, like, you know, just like how we see either blockchain projects with lots and lots of bips [<unknown], or ERCs or EIPs or or ZIPs under consideration. Well, we hope to have similar. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay. Well, I think we're just past time here. So thank you so much for that. But if you want to stick around, if there's additional questions, I know some people have to jump, but… Yeah. Really appreciate you sharing all that.

Jude Nelson: Thanks for having me on.

Brittany Laughlin: I'll see you guys all a discord, then. 

Phillip Roe: Yes. Excellent. Thank you very much. Good start. For the SIP process. 

Jude Nelson: I gotta bounce to but I'll see you all in discord. 

Phillip Roe: Bye	

Jason Schrader: All right, thank you. And I didn't have anything else to add, either. So I think we're good to go. Just next week's call will be on the eighth.So it'll be July 8, same time, same place. Maybe with new software. 

Phillip Roe: Okay. Excellent. Thank you. Let’s see… keep good, the good work.  Bouncing 

Jason Schrader: Thank you. Yeah, well, we'll talk more as we get into those procedures for sure. 

Phillip Roe: All right, good. That's a Silo Gina.

G. M.: Yes. Thank you.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
