# 20201105 Governance Working Group Call 27

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:01.680 --> 00:00:02.639
Jenny Mith: Alright. Hi, everyone.

2
00:00:03.720 --> 00:00:06.810
Jenny Mith: Welcome to working group all number 27

3
00:00:07.890 --> 00:00:21.750
Jenny Mith: Today is Thursday, November 5 and it's about 1220 I'm here with a few members of the working group and we're excited to get started and discuss a few and

4
00:00:22.680 --> 00:00:27.450
Jenny Mith: Meeting discussion items that have been on the docket for a little while, so will first start with

5
00:00:27.990 --> 00:00:38.400
Jenny Mith: Quick stand ups. I know we just did a bunch of personal stand ups. But if there anything if there's anything that's a little more related to governance that you've been working on. And please feel free to share those so

6
00:00:39.120 --> 00:00:48.270
Jenny Mith: I can start and I haven't done too much related to governance, I was mostly waiting for view from the foundation

7
00:00:49.560 --> 00:01:02.160
Jenny Mith: On an application which we have gotten feedback on and we'll discuss later in this meeting. And another thing that I have been working on is just trying to figure out the best route to

8
00:01:03.720 --> 00:01:15.390
Jenny Mith: Work on developer experience on the Community side a little more. I know that some developer type issues have come up with this group and was they were even originally a part of our

9
00:01:16.620 --> 00:01:25.020
Jenny Mith: grant application. So I've talked to some folks on the BBC team Alex and Joe about what we can do for developer experience, especially

10
00:01:25.560 --> 00:01:32.490
Jenny Mith: Leading up to the main net launch NASA ideas, mainly around maybe starting a working group, but also

11
00:01:33.150 --> 00:01:39.450
Jenny Mith: Getting some grant funding for that as well, which has come up in this group. So I just have a few scattered notes, nothing that I'm

12
00:01:39.870 --> 00:01:50.790
Jenny Mith: Ready to share on screen yet, but we can discuss that I probably should have put a meeting discussion item on the list for this, but can always discuss it in a couple of weeks.

13
00:01:51.300 --> 00:02:00.420
Jenny Mith: Yeah, that is my stand up. No, no blockers at the moment and and I'll just move on to Jason. Now, Jason. If you have any stand up. So you'd like to share

14
00:02:02.250 --> 00:02:05.970
Jason Schrader: Sure. So coming off our last meeting one of the bigger things I've

15
00:02:05.970 --> 00:02:19.410
Jason Schrader: Been working on is the standard operating procedures, so I have that as part of a draft pull request here that I'm putting a link into the chat for and you can see a copy of the document. Let me get back to my link here.

16
00:02:20.790 --> 00:02:34.290
Jason Schrader: On my repo, which will hopefully be done this week. I've got a few things I wanted to tidy up in there, but we're going over just basically how to set up a call how what is done before. What is done after and all the basics that are involved with that.

17
00:02:34.980 --> 00:02:43.500
Jason Schrader: And the other item that's assigned to me that I still need to work on. We were having some issues with links to documents coming out of our docs or five pages.

18
00:02:44.010 --> 00:02:53.880
Jason Schrader: So I'm going to put that on my list to look at as well as something that I expected to get to by now, but I haven't yet but I'm definitely going to make it a priority to look over some side effects.

19
00:02:54.510 --> 00:03:00.030
Jason Schrader: You know anybody trying to look into any basically any link documents like if there's a PDF or something else local

20
00:03:00.390 --> 00:03:12.480
Jason Schrader: It wasn't coming up and it should be a pretty quick fix, as well. So I'll be looking into that one. Otherwise, I don't have any blockers at this point and just excited to keep things moving and to hear some more about the grants.

21
00:03:15.360 --> 00:03:16.590
Jenny Mith: Thanks. You too.

22
00:03:20.850 --> 00:03:22.020
Jude Nelson: I don't have anything to report.

23
00:03:26.700 --> 00:03:32.760
Jenny Mith: Harold and I kind of went into this in your personal update. But do you want to do a very quickly recap of what you've been working on.

24
00:03:33.750 --> 00:03:34.230
You

25
00:03:35.550 --> 00:03:35.910
Harold Davis: Know,

26
00:03:36.000 --> 00:03:46.290
Harold Davis: In the stand up. Stand up, stand up, and I mentioned that I got some some feedback from Ronnie glass, who has offered to help us with our systems prototypes on the

27
00:03:46.980 --> 00:03:55.560
Harold Davis: Side of the poses that we reintroduce him also efficiently reached out to two masters haven't gotten any

28
00:03:55.980 --> 00:04:05.040
Harold Davis: Response from him back. But he may be busy. I know that they just had a fab summit and I'm going, I may be on vacation or something like this, but hopefully we'll get some

29
00:04:05.730 --> 00:04:21.360
Harold Davis: Some correspondence from him soon, either in the GitHub or bring them into one of these meetings, but it's it's exciting to be able to begin the merging of of the networks, hopefully, but even then we've also reached out to

30
00:04:22.380 --> 00:04:28.830
Harold Davis: A platform within the fab Academy network that allows for customizable workshops and

31
00:04:29.580 --> 00:04:40.440
Harold Davis: Even in the beta version of this, of this grant program, we should be able to get some some some nice prototypes and spit out of these these type of workshops or

32
00:04:41.220 --> 00:04:51.060
Harold Davis: Or programs or customizable programs that we can put together. So, um, it's been exciting to reach out to these folks and I'd be happy to report back anything

33
00:04:51.990 --> 00:05:04.560
Harold Davis: That comes out of the those reach outs and you know reporting the follow ups but also have started to put together what what the grant can look like going over the risks and whatnot.

34
00:05:06.240 --> 00:05:07.080
Harold Davis: deliverables.

35
00:05:08.100 --> 00:05:15.360
Harold Davis: And thinking of time frames involving all of these folks. So that's a brief stand up on my part.

36
00:05:18.180 --> 00:05:23.340
Jenny Mith: Hey, thanks for I'm looking forward to seeing the progress on that grant application that's all we

37
00:05:24.840 --> 00:05:27.120
Jenny Mith: Can do you have any governance related

38
00:05:27.960 --> 00:05:29.070
Jenny Mith: To stand up on

39
00:05:31.650 --> 00:05:32.760
Jenny Mith: Nothing. Sure. Thanks.

40
00:05:34.470 --> 00:05:34.830
Jenny Mith: Ryan.

41
00:05:37.500 --> 00:05:39.180
Ryan Arndt: Just that I've been traveling in the real

42
00:05:39.510 --> 00:05:40.890
Ryan Arndt: World, I talked about the

43
00:05:40.920 --> 00:05:44.010
Ryan Arndt: Current applications there and got more money coming in after the

44
00:05:44.100 --> 00:05:49.440
Ryan Arndt: Demo Day. So anyone has any other ideas on their own want to reach out and chat about them.

45
00:05:50.070 --> 00:05:51.900
Ryan Arndt: Please feel free also going to be

46
00:05:52.620 --> 00:06:07.830
Ryan Arndt: Before you can use that to if you want to post in there's tax grants categories. So you can post in there. You want a feedback on the ACR communities to before. Before you like sticking it as part of a full application so that doesn't feel so heavy. If she's willing to talk about me, you

47
00:06:08.970 --> 00:06:20.640
Ryan Arndt: Put it right on to the want to get help us a bit more serious. So for me the place that is around that around. If anyone needs help. But other than that, governance stuff. I've never any updates.

48
00:06:22.320 --> 00:06:34.950
Jenny Mith: Great. Thanks, Ryan. By the way, the demo day was great. I thought that was such a good way to showcase the work that folks are doing to the community. And that's definitely something that is relevant to this group for future grant applications.

49
00:06:35.610 --> 00:06:44.790
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, I think it'll be really cool, because when when the governance committee presents the demo day which will be ideal to get then talking about like can't be evil.

50
00:06:46.290 --> 00:06:47.100
Ryan Arndt: Values and stuff.

51
00:06:47.940 --> 00:06:52.980
Ryan Arndt: And then all ended and everything that would be really interesting that make for a community to hear the word so

52
00:06:55.020 --> 00:06:55.320
Jenny Mith: Yeah.

53
00:06:56.130 --> 00:06:56.880
Jenny Mith: Thanks for him.

54
00:06:57.300 --> 00:06:59.190
Ryan Arndt: So one of the things that you guys have a really fast.

55
00:07:01.350 --> 00:07:09.060
Jenny Mith: And Brittany to meet Santa play I realized, you may also be giving the foundation update. So this can just be a quick thing on what you've been working on in general.

56
00:07:10.440 --> 00:07:10.890
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yes.

57
00:07:11.220 --> 00:07:22.410
Brittany (Stacks.org): I'm working on. Well, working towards the launch of of sexy point oh so as a foundation. I think we have an opportunity to just help support.

58
00:07:23.190 --> 00:07:29.430
Brittany (Stacks.org): educational materials, things like that. So we're working on a wish list of grants for people to be able to get involved.

59
00:07:29.880 --> 00:07:36.870
Brittany (Stacks.org): To help with, you know, some of the nice to have things at the launch of sex two point now everything from like tutorials around

60
00:07:37.530 --> 00:07:49.140
Brittany (Stacks.org): How to use stack or how would you get started with mining and to more like bug fixes and things like that. So yeah, just been trying to compile those open items.

61
00:07:49.950 --> 00:07:54.150
Brittany (Stacks.org): And make sure that the grants pride parade is running smoothly. We definitely

62
00:07:55.080 --> 00:08:05.940
Brittany (Stacks.org): We had a lot of grants beginning this past week we had fewer number of grants. So the other thing that actually RYAN'S BEEN WORKING ON in tandem with other members of the team is just how do we get

63
00:08:06.450 --> 00:08:14.310
Brittany (Stacks.org): More people aware of the grants program and more people applying so you know if people have thoughts on that. Happy to take that chat and discord as well.

64
00:08:17.940 --> 00:08:19.140
Jenny Mith: Well, thanks. Brittany any

65
00:08:19.500 --> 00:08:20.910
Jenny Mith: blockers on what you're working on.

66
00:08:25.080 --> 00:08:27.660
Brittany (Stacks.org): New blockers. Thanks.

67
00:08:29.430 --> 00:08:29.790
Brittany (Stacks.org): Alright.

68
00:08:30.480 --> 00:08:45.000
Jenny Mith: Thank you for those types, everyone. I think it's a really good way to get a snapshot of what everyone's working on. So next we can go into more comprehensive foundation updates and I seen Brian Brittany or or Judy like to get those

69
00:08:49.470 --> 00:08:50.310
Ryan Arndt: You know, from my end.

70
00:08:50.940 --> 00:08:52.740
Ryan Arndt: Things, but mostly the demo day and then we're just

71
00:08:53.160 --> 00:09:00.690
Ryan Arndt: Getting more people in, so I don't have anything more comprehensive than what's already been brought up. But if you do, then go ahead, of course.

72
00:09:05.220 --> 00:09:06.030
Brittany (Stacks.org): I think we've covered

73
00:09:06.870 --> 00:09:07.800
Brittany (Stacks.org): Most of it from

74
00:09:09.630 --> 00:09:10.530
Brittany (Stacks.org): Our updates.

75
00:09:12.810 --> 00:09:13.440
Brittany (Stacks.org): Okay, thanks.

76
00:09:14.250 --> 00:09:18.180
Jenny Mith: So we can go into an action items and

77
00:09:20.820 --> 00:09:31.170
Jenny Mith: I think Jason, he went over a few. These are there anything you want to. Should we just go down the list or would you like to go down the list and give an update on any of them or

78
00:09:32.370 --> 00:09:33.990
Jenny Mith: Do you think that's the best use of our time here.

79
00:09:34.710 --> 00:09:38.430
Jason Schrader: I'm just real quick. The, the two that I addressed in my stand

80
00:09:38.430 --> 00:09:43.110
Jason Schrader: Up. I've got actually if you refresh the page to that closed out number one of the two

81
00:09:43.440 --> 00:09:52.140
Jason Schrader: Since we've already submitted the grant application just now and then 104 that's me working on those broken links and 48 is related to the

82
00:09:52.170 --> 00:09:53.580
Jenny Mith: Pull Request that I have open

83
00:09:54.240 --> 00:10:08.520
Jason Schrader: So those two are taken care of, as far as I'm going to kind of jump around the list a little bit here. Number 79 with GitHub pages and the sub domain we, I would like to make progress on that, but it's not a huge priority things, especially with

84
00:10:08.520 --> 00:10:09.390
Jenny Mith: Standard two point O

85
00:10:09.450 --> 00:10:16.380
Jason Schrader: Obviously, taking preference over everything else and the collaboration with meta go though I am less familiar with.

86
00:10:16.410 --> 00:10:17.850
Jenny Mith: That one. So let's go ahead and jump into

87
00:10:17.850 --> 00:10:19.050
Jason Schrader: That issue and take a look.

88
00:10:20.790 --> 00:10:22.230
Jenny Mith: At this was a suggestion from

89
00:10:32.100 --> 00:10:43.080
Jenny Mith: Right. This was inspired by our discussion of the Community voting mechanisms. So I think that that sparked something in lane about medical he said that there's some interesting

90
00:10:43.530 --> 00:10:56.670
Jenny Mith: resources and tools. We could use. And this is pending our grant application being approved. So I think, I don't. It doesn't feel like there's any immediate action on this or anything that we can discuss

91
00:10:58.050 --> 00:11:06.870
Jenny Mith: I'm hoping that within the next couple of weeks, our grant application is approved and Lane can jump on the next meeting and talk about the next steps with this.

92
00:11:08.160 --> 00:11:09.150
Jenny Mith: That sound reasonable

93
00:11:10.320 --> 00:11:12.450
Jason Schrader: Yeah, that sounds good to me. I'm

94
00:11:16.680 --> 00:11:18.690
Jenny Mith: Going to go over these remaining on the station.

95
00:11:19.470 --> 00:11:28.740
Jason Schrader: Sure, so the last one we have on the list there at the bottom was the meeting conference software and we talked a little bit about this in the last meeting as well as in our little

96
00:11:29.220 --> 00:11:35.760
Jason Schrader: Sink that we did before the meeting. Do we have a dedicated zoom account from the foundation at this point.

97
00:11:37.170 --> 00:11:38.940
Jenny Mith: I just pink Brian about this actually

98
00:11:39.000 --> 00:11:40.950
Jenny Mith: And I think Ryan is looking into

99
00:11:41.040 --> 00:11:44.700
Jenny Mith: One, that the community can access for this working group.

100
00:11:45.930 --> 00:11:55.140
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, yeah. So I'll do that might be some Brittany. If you have any ideas on that is it. They are. I don't know if the recurring monthly or like a yearly payment is the community would have

101
00:11:56.820 --> 00:12:02.490
Ryan Arndt: As you account to us. I don't know if that would qualify under regular Richard. Or how about fit.

102
00:12:05.850 --> 00:12:07.080
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yeah, I think that then

103
00:12:08.550 --> 00:12:11.010
Brittany (Stacks.org): We're open so you don't have a precedent, unlike what

104
00:12:12.210 --> 00:12:18.480
Brittany (Stacks.org): Works best here, but I do think we can sponsor a zoom account that maybe is just

105
00:12:19.920 --> 00:12:28.290
Brittany (Stacks.org): From the foundation side. And so it can be more like a public resource instead of just a specific grant unless there's, you know, a team is using it for a very

106
00:12:29.040 --> 00:12:39.900
Brittany (Stacks.org): specific purpose and they want to include the cost of a zoom account in their grant. So I think just funding a general zoom you could do. But if it's a

107
00:12:42.000 --> 00:12:45.480
Brittany (Stacks.org): Very specific then that could be included, just as part of a

108
00:12:47.550 --> 00:12:49.230
Ryan Arndt: Bigger, the general thing from the sounds of it, Jamie.

109
00:12:50.190 --> 00:12:55.200
Jenny Mith: Yeah, it is general, in which case we would have to come up with some ground rules for you so

110
00:12:55.920 --> 00:13:10.080
Jenny Mith: Who can access it. And what times and but assuming that it's okay from the foundation side, we can. I think the governance group can take that on as an action item just putting in place some ground rules for actually using that

111
00:13:11.430 --> 00:13:24.720
Brittany (Stacks.org): That probably fits into with some of the Code of Conduct work of just, you know, I know, like more of like a public utility. But, um, you know, some so it might be more specific, but some of the general rules of conduct. I think would apply as well.

112
00:13:24.780 --> 00:13:26.430
Jenny Mith: Right, okay.

113
00:13:27.270 --> 00:13:35.520
Jenny Mith: And I'll just, I'll make a note to include that as an action item after this meeting. So we're not distracted, but looks like we've made some progress on one

114
00:13:39.000 --> 00:13:42.210
Jenny Mith: In was that it for action items, Jason.

115
00:13:43.020 --> 00:13:45.330
Jason Schrader: Yes, yeah. That covers them all. Okay.

116
00:13:45.990 --> 00:13:49.500
Jenny Mith: Great, now go into the discussion.

117
00:13:51.630 --> 00:13:52.200
Jenny Mith: And

118
00:13:54.870 --> 00:14:02.100
Jenny Mith: I'm actually, I'm going to stop sharing my screen. I feel like Juliet is trying to join and she's in the waiting room. So, one second.

119
00:14:08.580 --> 00:14:11.910
Jenny Mith: It was wrong. Okay, we'll go back to the sun.

120
00:14:15.090 --> 00:14:16.560
Jenny Mith: Alright, so

121
00:14:18.330 --> 00:14:35.010
Jenny Mith: Thanks. Juliet. We actually have these meetings discussion items. So this came up as feedback from the Grants Committee on our application for the code of conduct and voting mechanism. So we can just go into some first

122
00:14:37.080 --> 00:14:39.090
Jenny Mith: But it was basically that

123
00:14:40.200 --> 00:14:46.920
Jenny Mith: Will Brittany tend to comment wondering who would actually be leading these projects, which I think is a very legitimate question.

124
00:14:47.310 --> 00:14:52.980
Jenny Mith: And it's worth discussing with the group, whether there's anyone here. Who'd like to see those projects or whether

125
00:14:53.460 --> 00:15:06.090
Jenny Mith: There is a process we want to undertake to actually identify a suitable lead for these. So we would need someone to lead the project on testing voting mechanism and someone to lead the

126
00:15:07.920 --> 00:15:10.110
Jenny Mith: Project on developing a code of conduct.

127
00:15:12.240 --> 00:15:17.670
Jenny Mith: And maybe just a general lead to make sure that there's progress being made on both of those streams.

128
00:15:21.270 --> 00:15:22.080
Jenny Mith: I'll open it up to

129
00:15:34.020 --> 00:15:40.080
Harold Davis: The process of deciding if it seems interesting if if there's been some thoughts on that already.

130
00:15:41.280 --> 00:15:51.810
Harold Davis: I'm interested. I'm open to discussion on this. I don't know if anybody else has any ideas on what a process like that could look like. We can also just, I guess.

131
00:15:54.180 --> 00:15:57.000
Harold Davis: You know, volunteer, those of us that are here.

132
00:15:58.260 --> 00:16:11.400
Harold Davis: I think that I'd be comfortable taking the lead on the voting mechanism but I'm also I think most comfortable if we if there's a process that everybody's comfortable with in deciding who does what

133
00:16:12.510 --> 00:16:12.870
I don't know.

134
00:16:18.960 --> 00:16:26.820
Jason Schrader: That's a, that's a real chicken and egg question right there when we're talking about having a voting mechanism or deciding on one right. But I do think

135
00:16:27.270 --> 00:16:33.570
Jason Schrader: Hey, I would voice that you know voice that in the discussion item, just as a comment in the issue.

136
00:16:34.110 --> 00:16:46.110
Jason Schrader: And we can definitely bring it to the discord and just try to see if there's any blockers to either having people who volunteered, or who were nominated kind of take those lead positions and everything else.

137
00:16:50.070 --> 00:16:50.670
The comment.

138
00:16:51.720 --> 00:16:54.300
Jenny Mith: You want to make it. Can you sum up your comment, Jason.

139
00:16:56.490 --> 00:16:57.300
Jason Schrader: Harold's interested

140
00:17:13.980 --> 00:17:20.280
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think, in previous discussions that we've had on this proposal was that

141
00:17:21.300 --> 00:17:30.330
Jenny Mith: This proposal is is meant to kickstart a couple of efforts on the governance front and because we don't actually have a voting mechanism. Yet, there isn't.

142
00:17:30.690 --> 00:17:42.900
Jenny Mith: Like a legitimate way to have the community vote on someone to lead that project like Jason said it's a little bit of a chicken and egg problem. But I think the expectation was that either folks on

143
00:17:44.100 --> 00:17:54.630
Jenny Mith: A within this working group or folks who have worked with this working group would be willing to take lead on these projects. It's not that anyone here is obligated to you, but given our experience.

144
00:17:55.740 --> 00:18:03.870
Jenny Mith: With governance and given the time that we spent on the actual proposal, it would make sense for someone from this group to lead one of these projects streams.

145
00:18:04.170 --> 00:18:16.980
Jenny Mith: And obviously anyone in the community is is able to participate in getting those projects done but from the last discussion we had it sounded like these leads would be project managers to ensure that

146
00:18:18.630 --> 00:18:23.040
Jenny Mith: We actually deliver on these streams so I feel like

147
00:18:24.180 --> 00:18:34.110
Jenny Mith: Some folks in this group have expressed interest. So, Harold. Thank you for stepping up for the voting mechanism project. And I think that you would be doing a little bit of work with Jude on that. So there would be

148
00:18:35.460 --> 00:18:40.620
Jenny Mith: Some support there and I don't want to speak for Juliette. But I feel like in the past, we've

149
00:18:41.640 --> 00:18:48.570
Jenny Mith: Indicated some interest in taking the lead on the code of conduct which obviously I'd be fine with

150
00:18:49.650 --> 00:18:59.910
Jenny Mith: I guess the discussion or the thing that's up for discussion here is are we okay with sort of just defaulting to folks in this group who want to take the lead on these projects.

151
00:19:06.360 --> 00:19:06.990
Dan Trevino: Yes.

152
00:19:12.120 --> 00:19:13.830
Jenny Mith: Thank you, Dan. Better yes from Dan

153
00:19:15.240 --> 00:19:18.060
Jenny Mith: Actually, you know, are there any major objections to that.

154
00:19:20.640 --> 00:19:22.440
Jenny Mith: Is there a fear of that seeming

155
00:19:24.330 --> 00:19:25.260
Jenny Mith: To unethical.

156
00:19:27.540 --> 00:19:33.840
Jason Schrader: No, I think we're all here to help. And, and I think that's why we come to the meetings and that's why we've been a part of everything. I know that.

157
00:19:33.990 --> 00:19:41.040
Jason Schrader: You know you I, you, me and Dan have also had conversations around that code of conduct and really wanting to get something there.

158
00:19:41.370 --> 00:19:50.970
Jason Schrader: I know Phillip felt really strongly about it as well. So I think we just need to tap into. Who's going to be on the actual paperwork or who wants to really take the lead on that and

159
00:19:51.480 --> 00:19:54.120
Jason Schrader: It from my perspective for the code of conduct. I'm just

160
00:19:55.050 --> 00:20:06.510
Jason Schrader: I'm concerned about my own time. Just because I am pretty slammed with other things, but I am very interested in the subject, I do want to help out and find ways to contribute. So I didn't step up just yet to

161
00:20:07.230 --> 00:20:13.770
Jason Schrader: Say, I would take lead or anything, but I'm definitely going to be involved and I'm looking at that this week to see if that's something I can do.

162
00:20:15.420 --> 00:20:26.520
Jenny Mith: Well, thanks fixin well. So it sounds like there are no, there are no major objections with this group sort of selecting from this group for Project leads, I think.

163
00:20:27.900 --> 00:20:34.380
Jenny Mith: In the interest of time, we can probably just take the the time between this meeting and the next meeting to just

164
00:20:35.640 --> 00:20:51.990
Jenny Mith: Asynchronously work with each other to see who would actually like to take what and have that updated and decided by the next meeting, preferably earlier so that we can get started on these projects. But does that sound okay to everyone. We don't necessarily need to decide on this meeting.

165
00:20:55.230 --> 00:20:56.730
Jason Schrader: Yes, I agree. Great.

166
00:20:57.240 --> 00:21:04.290
Jenny Mith: Alright, so I'll update these afterwards. And this was, this has already been I should close this actually

167
00:21:04.590 --> 00:21:07.290
Jenny Mith: Refresh. And oh, you did. Okay.

168
00:21:08.640 --> 00:21:09.360
Jenny Mith: Thanks, Jason.

169
00:21:10.920 --> 00:21:12.780
Jason Schrader: While we were going through some of the initial one

170
00:21:12.780 --> 00:21:16.500
Jason Schrader: So it's, I tried to close them out when, as soon as I recognize him.

171
00:21:17.160 --> 00:21:17.460
Jason Schrader: Okay.

172
00:21:17.850 --> 00:21:26.550
Jenny Mith: No problem. Okay, so I can just add an update to these right after the meeting this one we had this proposal from somebody who hasn't

173
00:21:27.660 --> 00:21:31.680
Jenny Mith: attended any of these meetings. We can look at it if we want to

174
00:21:34.290 --> 00:21:34.650
Jason Schrader: I was

175
00:21:34.950 --> 00:21:43.830
Jason Schrader: Going to suggest for for everyone's time we did a pretty in depth. Overview Alon in the last meeting of each of these discussion items. So I think at this point. If anybody just has

176
00:21:43.860 --> 00:21:50.130
Jason Schrader: Any updates or anything they'd like to share related to one of the discussion items on the list, we can move forward with that.

177
00:21:50.880 --> 00:22:00.660
Jason Schrader: As long as nobody sees any any blockers to that. And of course, if you have any questions about any of them we can pull them up to, but I don't think we need to go through every single one every single time as well. Great.

178
00:22:01.080 --> 00:22:02.250
Jenny Mith: Okay, and

179
00:22:03.720 --> 00:22:14.370
Jenny Mith: Yes, I guess we can just quickly skim through these. I know will want to discuss this Harold and are there any other action items that stand out to folks that we want to discuss

180
00:22:34.140 --> 00:22:36.150
Jenny Mith: Alright, okay, sounds like there are no

181
00:22:36.690 --> 00:22:39.210
Jenny Mith: Questions right now. So why don't we go into

182
00:22:39.210 --> 00:22:54.960
Jenny Mith: This one I know Harold is here and can actually speak to this issue. So are there any updates or will you have given some updates Harold bad. Is there more that you'd like to say about this and questions you'd like to ask the group about

183
00:22:56.610 --> 00:23:15.930
Harold Davis: Yeah, I'd like to, I'd like to open up any discussion if anybody is recently looked at these these proposals, and I should be adding a grant that may be more concise in the things linked here may be a little bit clearer for folks to dive into um but

184
00:23:17.670 --> 00:23:37.170
Harold Davis: Yeah, the most up to date thing I have is just waiting on feedback so I can get a little bit or waiting on returned emails from folks that were actually be you know either heavily involved in what the grant would be going to and how these proposals were actually be sought out

185
00:23:38.220 --> 00:23:43.560
Harold Davis: Or finished completed with minimal experience in digital fabrication myself.

186
00:23:45.630 --> 00:23:50.010
Harold Davis: And, you know, just barely getting my feet wet and systems design on the ground.

187
00:23:51.180 --> 00:24:03.240
Harold Davis: Folks like Ronnie glass Rob mentioned before, it will be a tremendous help and actually platforms that are offered through fab Academy that you know have a lot of experience in systems design.

188
00:24:04.290 --> 00:24:09.990
Harold Davis: And also leveraging indigenous modes of production in material development.

189
00:24:11.430 --> 00:24:19.710
Harold Davis: As well as even they even dabbled in Indigenous modes of organization. So I'm excited to to be able to

190
00:24:21.510 --> 00:24:26.010
Harold Davis: Bring to the stacks ecosystem. What I think is a very valid.

191
00:24:27.120 --> 00:24:36.360
Harold Davis: Research point of governance for for long term sustainability of the ecosystem to be able to bring in what I think is often neglected.

192
00:24:38.970 --> 00:24:45.900
Harold Davis: Viewpoints or approaches models for governance and management of local regional areas.

193
00:24:47.010 --> 00:24:50.730
Harold Davis: Especially in the context of local, regional, that data management.

194
00:24:52.620 --> 00:25:10.290
Harold Davis: I think is a beautiful thing to have early in the ecosystem as as text to takes off. And there's all these possibilities with with proof of transfer and and you know maybe the first time that we see legitimate will have the capacity to see legitimate.

195
00:25:12.000 --> 00:25:25.980
Harold Davis: Bottom up downs and whatnot. So, um, I think that getting our feet wet in in the research of how to actually make that happen, is extremely important, and I'm excited to to be able to to

196
00:25:26.550 --> 00:25:36.600
Harold Davis: merge these these networks because as a an ecosystem is focused on the internet. We know that you know the next iterations of industry and even world trade.

197
00:25:37.350 --> 00:25:47.940
Harold Davis: will largely be based on you know the this internet thing. So to be able to start an indigenous dialogue and authentic one specifically in matrimonial

198
00:25:49.650 --> 00:25:59.160
Harold Davis: Counts Council dialogue, I think, is extremely important for long term dynamics of the ecosystem. And so if there's any

199
00:25:59.910 --> 00:26:15.960
Harold Davis: questions that come to mind, which is that brief description of what will go into the small systems prototypes ideas and how that relates to the to the network. I'm here, I'm all ears. I think we have about 15 minutes. So thank you, Jenny.

200
00:26:17.790 --> 00:26:18.240
Jenny Mith: No problem.

201
00:26:18.870 --> 00:26:30.060
Jenny Mith: Do you and so thank you for that great overview authority been doing for the actual grant application that you're planning to put together what are going to be the

202
00:26:31.710 --> 00:26:37.680
Jenny Mith: The main. I was gonna say asked. I don't know if that's the right word, but the main things that you want to accomplish with that.

203
00:26:40.260 --> 00:26:41.340
Harold Davis: Yeah, so the

204
00:26:41.550 --> 00:26:49.350
Harold Davis: The so things related to the stacks ecosystem just going through the some of the dependencies and some of the risks in the in the grant.

205
00:26:50.400 --> 00:27:04.440
Harold Davis: I was, I was thinking, you know, obviously will be, you know, heavily dependent on folks like Jude and other folks like free eager and rainy even have done a lot of work on the beginnings of Providence, you know, for us.

206
00:27:05.520 --> 00:27:21.360
Harold Davis: A big part of what would be possible in the small systems prototypes is matrilineal Council certification so certifying goods are being able to show in a small prototype that blockchain based systems allow us to certify goods.

207
00:27:22.680 --> 00:27:30.480
Harold Davis: In a way that says these goods come from, you know, healthy ecosystems and healthy organizations and so

208
00:27:31.230 --> 00:27:41.640
Harold Davis: And this is a you know a lot of times in in working in this project I've seen that the sexy ecosystem and starts to work on something somewhere. Someone has started to either

209
00:27:42.270 --> 00:27:51.210
Harold Davis: You know voice. What's possible Jude is in the Q and A's in the past shown a lot of what's possible with P. O. Box in the way of, you know,

210
00:27:52.680 --> 00:28:06.870
Harold Davis: You know, web browser based servers and and going into even building Netflix or Facebook with with pure wax and getting some of those insights showed us what's possible with even mids and endows right up with pure wax.

211
00:28:07.620 --> 00:28:20.610
Harold Davis: Hopefully, and so we're we're will be looking to the ecosystem for insights into how to make that possible, how to deploy blockchains be a big part of the small systems prototypes as well. And so

212
00:28:21.300 --> 00:28:33.330
Harold Davis: Yeah, well, we'll be we'll be looking back to the ecosystem constantly. I think for what's already being built a lot of times is what are small systems prototypes will be needed. So it's nice to see that.

213
00:28:39.090 --> 00:28:40.620
Harold Davis: I hope I answered your question there.

214
00:28:43.710 --> 00:28:46.920
Jenny Mith: Any questions or comments from other folks on the meeting.

215
00:28:53.730 --> 00:29:05.250
Jason Schrader: I noticed that towards the end there. One of your more recent comments you were, are you still looking for people to help collaborate or set up that grant application. I know you mentioned some of the sections and you're starting to write it up.

216
00:29:05.760 --> 00:29:12.990
Jason Schrader: Are you still looking for help with that, from the group or from the broader ecosystem, or is that something that you feel like you're getting through at this point.

217
00:29:13.500 --> 00:29:15.330
Harold Davis: Yeah, sure. I should be able to

218
00:29:15.810 --> 00:29:26.070
Harold Davis: Send out a link it either in the forum post or the discord Ryan I reached out to Brian yesterday. And he told me to get together, something we can all work on a sync way.

219
00:29:26.610 --> 00:29:37.140
Harold Davis: And yeah, I should about 90% done with with that grant and just going over some of the deliverables. The grant application, I should say, and

220
00:29:37.830 --> 00:29:50.130
Harold Davis: At some of the blockers that, like I said, is is getting a response from folks like wag Academy, who, like I said, I think the majority of the grant will be going to in terms of being able to spit out these these prototypes.

221
00:29:59.460 --> 00:30:01.140
Jason Schrader: Awesome, that answers my question. Thank you.

222
00:30:09.840 --> 00:30:11.100
Jenny Mith: Are there notes from your

223
00:30:13.020 --> 00:30:17.340
Jenny Mith: Your proposal that we can review or like help review before you

224
00:30:18.360 --> 00:30:19.380
Jenny Mith: Push a final version.

225
00:30:21.360 --> 00:30:22.710
Harold Davis: Was that I missed the first part of it.

226
00:30:23.280 --> 00:30:29.280
Jenny Mith: Are there notes or an outline of your air proposal that we can help review before you push the final version.

227
00:30:30.060 --> 00:30:35.940
Harold Davis: And a lot of a lot of what would be in the in the grant is in the one pager.

228
00:30:37.200 --> 00:30:39.510
Harold Davis: That are in this in this thread here that we're looking at.

229
00:30:40.650 --> 00:30:52.710
Harold Davis: The graph will be the one that I'll link to as soon as this meeting is over and the discord or inform probably both will be maybe a little bit more concise, but the one pagers have a pretty concise as well.

230
00:30:54.270 --> 00:30:55.110
Harold Davis: But, but, yes.

231
00:30:57.090 --> 00:31:04.110
Harold Davis: The deliverables will be more clear in the in the grant. So I'm excited to get that to get that out to you.

232
00:31:05.700 --> 00:31:06.030
Jenny Mith: Okay.

233
00:31:06.390 --> 00:31:19.260
Jenny Mith: Thanks for all that sounds like this is something that the group can review over the next couple of weeks as well. And while you're working on your final version and leave comments in the discord chat. That sounds good to you and everybody else.

234
00:31:21.210 --> 00:31:21.750
Alright.

235
00:31:24.450 --> 00:31:24.870
Jenny Mith: No problem.

236
00:31:25.620 --> 00:31:26.460
Jenny Mith: Alright so we got

237
00:31:26.760 --> 00:31:37.800
Jenny Mith: We're actually pretty good on time here. Everyone I we've got nine minutes left. And I think that we can either close out the meeting or just raise any

238
00:31:38.880 --> 00:31:41.370
Jenny Mith: Other thoughts or questions that folks have

239
00:31:49.350 --> 00:31:54.600
Ryan Arndt: A question and something I was brainstorming is related to governance known and just see what the government's folks out of it.

240
00:31:55.590 --> 00:31:56.820
Ryan Arndt: Sure, which was

241
00:31:57.030 --> 00:31:57.540
Jenny Mith: I think

242
00:31:57.600 --> 00:32:10.020
Ryan Arndt: It could be valuable to speak to a biologist, looking at how the because it can be designed to act like an actual ecosystem like this healthy ecosystems exist in nature already

243
00:32:10.800 --> 00:32:22.080
Ryan Arndt: And kind of like mirroring that is like a biomimicry kind of ways. So that's a no genuine I've talked about how my juggle stacks up steward of being a steward of the ecosystem cell phone.

244
00:32:22.710 --> 00:32:36.690
Ryan Arndt: Using natural systems to inspire that so I thought maybe talking to a biologist, or some sort of forestry experts around that will help you. He goes to looks like bringing people like that in governments could be beneficial. I don't want to see, we thought

245
00:32:44.910 --> 00:32:46.080
Harold Davis: Yeah, I mean I

246
00:32:47.190 --> 00:32:50.610
Harold Davis: I may have linked something in the in the research somewhere.

247
00:32:52.020 --> 00:32:56.790
Harold Davis: In the research section to the repo here on about ecosystem.

248
00:32:57.300 --> 00:33:00.510
Harold Davis: Approaches in in game theory. And I was, um,

249
00:33:00.960 --> 00:33:13.770
Harold Davis: I've introduced to the community, a couple of times I wasn't too sure how how much it applied, but it was um it was looking at applying, you know, an ecosystem like analysis to different

250
00:33:14.910 --> 00:33:16.740
Harold Davis: You know software that

251
00:33:18.180 --> 00:33:21.750
Harold Davis: Software analysis of some kind of kind of went over my head and a lot of ways.

252
00:33:23.280 --> 00:33:27.240
Harold Davis: But, um, it seemed, it seemed like it could apply to

253
00:33:28.350 --> 00:33:30.810
Harold Davis: Our stacks ecosystem here and the way of

254
00:33:31.980 --> 00:33:38.070
Harold Davis: The way it was speaking of don't want to butcher the language here, but I'm keystone species. Right.

255
00:33:39.420 --> 00:33:51.060
Harold Davis: I was kind of thinking of it back in some of our original admiring attempts. You know, I think some, some of the the gist of the research was

256
00:33:52.650 --> 00:33:53.190
Harold Davis: You know,

257
00:33:54.660 --> 00:34:03.210
Harold Davis: Looking at ecosystems, looking at game theory and ecosystem and ecosystems approach where you know some some

258
00:34:03.900 --> 00:34:24.030
Harold Davis: Species are, you know, like a honeybee right on it costs nothing but is extremely beneficial and productive for, you know, the entire ecosystem. Right. So these are extremely important to keep around, whereas some some things that seem like they can't go anywhere like megafauna

259
00:34:25.950 --> 00:34:27.810
Harold Davis: Actually are a little bit more

260
00:34:29.040 --> 00:34:31.590
Harold Davis: You know, I don't know how to say it, but I'm

261
00:34:33.390 --> 00:34:34.200
Harold Davis: dispensable.

262
00:34:35.610 --> 00:34:48.150
Harold Davis: Or you can't afford to overtime lose these are have these things replaced. Um, but yeah. So I think it's a it may be viable i can i can link to it again if

263
00:34:48.630 --> 00:34:58.800
Harold Davis: If I, if I can find it. But, uh, I think it's, it comes out of the same generative research group gender justice research group that I've mentioned it before and do some some pretty amazing work.

264
00:35:00.840 --> 00:35:01.230
Ryan Arndt: Very cool.

265
00:35:01.260 --> 00:35:05.790
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, that'd be great. And definitely interested in reading that kind of thing. There's a lot of possibility on that.

266
00:35:06.300 --> 00:35:20.610
Ryan Arndt: Making it sustainable ecosystem for stacks by modeling it on actual natural ecosystems that are sustainably setup and same thing for, like, I think the same thing for cities and all sorts of things. But I think for stocks you could be really valuable is to assess it. And that way.

267
00:35:21.930 --> 00:35:26.520
Ryan Arndt: Since nature's been doing it for so darn long as will try and do with picture doing so well. Right.

268
00:35:29.820 --> 00:35:30.960
Jenny Mith: At the sounds like the

269
00:35:32.760 --> 00:35:48.120
Jenny Mith: Software paper that he sent me a long time ago here that was that actually really illustrated when ecosystem could be like in it. It does draw on what some of what Ryan has suggested, and to be honest. The first step in figuring this out. Could just be

270
00:35:49.770 --> 00:35:57.030
Jenny Mith: generating an ecosystem graphic. That's actually something I'm working on now and I've actually talked to her Rafi who's working with the foundation

271
00:35:57.480 --> 00:36:04.500
Jenny Mith: About this and trying to figure out an intuitive way to help folks in the ecosystem understand how it works, because I think that we're all

272
00:36:04.860 --> 00:36:13.500
Jenny Mith: Sort of working through that ourselves. I've taken a look at a lot of the proof of transfer diagrams that community members have made, for example, and I think

273
00:36:14.010 --> 00:36:24.120
Jenny Mith: They make sense from the point of view, who have someone who's trying to understand proof of transfer themselves, but it's really not easy to rock. When you see like a diagram with just a bunch of blocks.

274
00:36:24.420 --> 00:36:35.580
Jenny Mith: And arrows. It's not intuitive what the incentive mechanism is it's not intuitive who the players are and it's not intuitive. How it necessarily feeds the the wider ecosystem. So

275
00:36:36.450 --> 00:36:55.440
Jenny Mith: It'd be great if we could, we could probably open up a meeting action item for this where you guys can drop some of your inspiration for just how an ecosystem runs and it could really actually help inspire the graphic that we have eventually commission for this x ecosystem.

276
00:36:56.130 --> 00:37:03.330
Ryan Arndt: Okay, cool. Yeah, I got a great video that I watched it about stewardship, that helps. What I'm trying to get back. Think about those kind of things. So it should

277
00:37:05.130 --> 00:37:05.340
Yeah.

278
00:37:06.390 --> 00:37:18.870
Jenny Mith: Thanks for that. Okay. So it sounds like that's the end of them all of our action and discussion items. Just to recap, we've gone over done all of our stand ups. Today we've had

279
00:37:19.560 --> 00:37:27.450
Jenny Mith: A great update from the foundation on the grants program and there was just a great demo day that showcase some of the work that recent grant recipients were doing.

280
00:37:28.110 --> 00:37:33.840
Jenny Mith: In terms of action items Jason has been awesome in working through those and just has a few more.

281
00:37:34.170 --> 00:37:43.500
Jenny Mith: Left with something like the standard operating procedures being really foundational to the way that this group will continue to operate. So thank you, Jason for working through those. If anyone is curious.

282
00:37:44.250 --> 00:37:49.230
Jenny Mith: What those action items are please feel free to look at the meeting action label.

283
00:37:50.010 --> 00:37:57.450
Jenny Mith: For discussion items we went through and first and foremost the grant application that we submitted. We got some feedback.

284
00:37:58.050 --> 00:38:07.380
Jenny Mith: Asking who would actually be leading the project. The project streams that were included in the application and those three was being the voting mechanism and

285
00:38:07.710 --> 00:38:18.780
Jenny Mith: The code of conduct and our question is basically, who is going to be leading those Harold has graciously graciously offered to and step up stepped up to the the voting mechanism.

286
00:38:19.260 --> 00:38:25.380
Jenny Mith: Project and which we don't sound opposed to at all, but we can discuss that on discord.

287
00:38:25.830 --> 00:38:37.140
Jenny Mith: And if they're, you know, happened to be any issues with that and figure out how the setup would look like for Harold as lead and we also need a lead for code of conduct which will also discuss

288
00:38:37.710 --> 00:38:52.170
Jenny Mith: Asynchronously in the next few weeks. And we had some great discussion about the ecosystem and some inspiration for illustrating what that looks like and how we can work together as

289
00:38:53.400 --> 00:39:02.070
Jenny Mith: independent entities within the larger ecosystem and I covered everything that we talked about today. I figured it would be good to do a summary at the end of every one of these meetings.

290
00:39:02.580 --> 00:39:03.960
Ryan Arndt: Because it's pretty great summary, I'd say.

291
00:39:04.740 --> 00:39:13.860
Jenny Mith: Cool. Alright. Thanks everybody. And we're working on time so I will update this agenda right after this meeting and

292
00:39:14.280 --> 00:39:23.100
Jenny Mith: The action items and discussion items that we talked about will also, of course, paying everybody in the next few weeks with reminders to update areas shoes.

293
00:39:24.000 --> 00:39:35.310
Jenny Mith: Harold's you were looking forward to seeing progress on your grant application. So please feel free to send that in discord and we'll see everybody in two weeks or so.

294
00:39:37.110 --> 00:39:37.560
Dan Trevino: Thank you.

295
00:39:39.180 --> 00:39:39.810
Jason Schrader: Everybody

296
00:39:40.320 --> 00:39:42.180
Hi everybody.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
