# 20200806 Governance Working Group Call 21

Edited transcript from Zoom.

Jenny Mith: Hey, everybody. Welcome to the governance working group meeting number 21 although that's debatable - number 20 didn't happen, but we can get into that in a little bit. Today is Thursday, August 6, and it's just a little past noon Eastern Time. How does everyone feel about the new time for this meeting? I'm hoping folks are more awake. I am, which is great. Yeah. Okay rave reviews of the new time. Awesome. Okay. 

Jenny Mith: So today's meeting is going to be a little different from the ones that we've had previously, just based on the retro call that we had a couple weeks ago, In which we discussed, possibly, well not possibly, in which we discussed a developing a grant proposal to fund and support this working group moving forward. And I think it's as Brittany said, it's going to be a great way to test out the grant.io platform that the Stacks Foundation is coming out with. So I found an agenda here that is specifically catered to that, although I know there are some outstanding issues that we still have to address. 

Jenny Mith: So that is actually the first action item here is - asking ourselves what outstanding work, do we still have to complete, and can any of that work be accommodated by the governance working group grant proposal that we are going to start working on today. So the person going to call out for that, for any initial opinions is Jason. Jason, I know you've done a ton of work in this area and just making sure our standard operating procedures are amazing and seamless. I know there are a bunch of open issues. I'm wondering if of those issues, there's anything that is, you know, very much outstanding that lies outside the scope of the grant proposal that we should address now.

Jason Schrader: Sure. So I was just dropping a few links into the chat for everybody for today's agenda, our previous agenda for what would have been meeting 20, and then where we keep the resources for the past meetings and everything else. And the probably the biggest question I had is, you know, if we really like this structure of how we track meetings and we update the tables, just how should we fit everything back in considering the retro meeting and sort of our restructuring here a bit. And I think the easiest way to do that would be to call the last meeting meeting number 20,  call this one number 21, and just keep moving. Simple is always best, unless we have any major objections to that. 

Jason Schrader: But in doing that, I was curious, you know, we have this sort of rolling agenda of action items and discussion items that we would do per meeting. So back in the project management repository issue number 72, there were quite a few things we were talking about at the times. Like we, you know, we were still going over what some of the board nominations, community board seat by laws, those kind of things. And we are finishing up the survey which we had a follow up with survey respondents that I don't think has happened yet. That would probably be one we can definitely talk about. And then, we've got this landing page that we've developed so that all the resources on GitHub are now displayed online just at a github.io domain through GitHub pages. 

Jason Schrader: So that was, that was the main parts of it and the rest was pretty much discussion, but I was more curious of the, the meta conversation of how everyone feels like we should carry these issues, like should we continue to carry them from meeting to meeting? Did we like that system? Is there anything we want to change about it before I go and add anything to, let's say, like the agenda for the next meeting or something like that? So I'll give a few seconds for feedback on that. 

Jenny Mith: Actually, I had a comment on this and I think this came up in the retro meeting. But this idea of different work streams - so seems like these issues, pretty much that span all of our governance issues and or in all of our different interests. And perhaps like a model of having work streams on, which we report on more like a semi monthly basis or asynchronously might be more effective and productive. So I don't know exactly how we would be categorizing those different work streams. But things like what Harold is working on for example, would be one specific work stream and things like that the board nominations would correspond to a work stream specifically around Stacks Foundation governance. And some of the more administrative things around like standard operating procedures would, would be part of a work stream on how, on you know how the governance working group works. I don't know what, what folks think about that. 

Jason Schrader: I definitely think that's a, that's a good point and I dropped a link over to the original form that we set up when we were talking about these type of meetings. And some of the questions that I wanted to ask everybody were what type of meeting should we have, you know? Like we've had a really cool action session where we all sat here and we spent the time working together. We proposed the idea for a discussion-type session where it's like, “Hey, we have a really in depth concept and we want to explain it to everybody.” And same with the town hall and the other meeting types. So in in that way I think what I would recommend is, we really have two options. Like we can continue carrying the issues from agenda to agenda to agenda, which I don't see any issue with. Or we could move some of those longer form discussion type items or even the action items into a living document in the repository. 

Jason Schrader: So it would be, that would actually make it available on the website versus only in the issues. And it would give us some ways to say like, hey, we have these topics we want to schedule a meeting around this topic and, and we can address them via those separate work streams. 

Jason Schrader: So I'm seeing a little bit of feedback in the chat. We have Juliet and Harold agreeing to rolling things within the issues. So with that sort of new idea that I propose there with anybody, would anybody prefer to do it in a living document that could live on the website versus just carrying it over and each agenda issue? Or do you still feel strongly that these should flow with the agenda. And again, I'll pause. 

Jenny Mith:  Maybe, perhaps a compromise - I like the idea of having a living document, just because I like seeing the live collaboration between folks in the document. But maybe if it carries, if updates are carried from issue to issue as like a section - so like an update of a work stream section in each issue that could also take care of Juliet’s point about it keeping agenda items top of mind for her. Does that make sense. It makes sense my head, when I was thinking about it.

[overlapping voices]

Phillip Roe: Good day. I think that we, the most important aspect is to try to advance in, in, in our, can say objectives. And that's why, that's in and what I notice is that that we are trying to, to bring, to do in a written form the some principles that are inherent in this community. And that's something that, something is has been captured by the, I mean the, the survey or the and also the certain, certain documents. And so at least you know those things we should try to collect it in a way that it has a certain order. And so, in, in order to really have the consensus that that is what were we talking about. But there's certain things that we already have. So then that something that, as you were mentioning, Jason, that also this is like a living document. But maybe we can concentrate it in just one topic because it's quite broad, you know, to have a very huge document and also to have that all so by, by document by, by certain very important topics could be different documents for the different important topics. 

Phillip Roe: And that's a way to solve it because it's the, we had to decide what which is which are the values that we are considering, which are the principles, and, and those are the things and And of course, this is when you have like a kind of a source of knowledge, as for example the revelation of the, the cut from the religions, you know, is the, is the, the prophet that gives you that revelation, and then you have to write that. So you  have the Bible, you have the Qur'an, you have the Bible from the Jews, and you have the traditional, indigenous… as a knowledge that then you ask talk with about that and you have that correlation. Then you put it together and all that and then you have all that, all that as a source of knowledge. 

Phillip Roe: But in terms of the science – science is based on, on, and try to understand what's going on in the universe and the nature and then to try to define certain principles and those principles likely come up with a knowledge of science. But in terms of, this is a mix of business, social, scientific – it’s a mix of principles, you see. That also this is spiritual principles that are around. So at least you know that, that probably that another people really when they come in… and yesterday and I saw two testimonies saying that this is some principles that are in the BlockStack community that they value. And then, so then that those are the things that we have to capture. 

Phillip Roe: I know you have done, Lane has done a good way to capture that and Jason has made that all, so let's let's see which other topics are quite a very important than we can try to work on it. [voices overlapping] Sorry about the long inspiration. 

Jenny Mith: I think on that note, and so on the, on the note of work streams it, I guess like for, if we're thinking about this from the point of view of a new governance working group member, it would be very clear to them. And I think maybe this is like Juliet's concern as well. If you're a new member and you're looking at an issue for an upcoming meeting, you're, you're wondering what what is, what the group is working on, and what their progress is. So if there's a section that lays out the different work streams and it's very clear what you could be working on as a member of the Governance working group, that could solve our issue of, like, you know what, what's going on. So if you're someone who cares about the Stacks Foundation maybe that's a work stream that you'd like to plug into. If you're someone who's interested in like helping the governance group operate, that's the work stream that you could plug into. Obviously you could be [unknown] couple of work streams, but perhaps as a way for us to sort of, you know, advertise the work that we're doing a little better. And so, yeah, I agree with Phillip in just making that clear to folks. Although I do think we do that now. In a way. So.

Jason Schrader: Sure. And I definitely want to say thank you, Phillip. I think what you're saying is right on par, right? Like as we're starting to amass more information, more data, more action items, discussion items, all of this stuff - we're starting to see different categories or tags or ways that we can organize the information. So thinking of it that way I can see definitely you know keeping everything heavily linked, but to take advantage of ways to organize the information now that we have it. And I definitely have some ideas for that too. So I'm happy to take those and kind of either propose them in an issue or sort of… Actually I'll probably just open it in the PR so people can look at it and if we like it, we get enough people to agree on it, then we can merge it in.

Jason Schrader: But more, more so it sounds like we're all on the same page that as long as we have top of mind awareness and a decent amount of organization, that the content itself can sort of move in in a new direction. So I will, I will task myself with that one. And on that note, is there any other details related to this topic of like past meeting or agenda items or the way things move that anybody else would like to cover? 

Jenny Mith: Yeah, actually one thing I clarified, I would like to have clarified by the group, just based on the conversations we've had about about making these meetings and more geared toward working together. Are we going to adopt a format of there being no written updates every week on each of these work streams, but we don't necessarily talk about every single one of those work streams during the meeting? Like maybe each meeting has one or two main focuses or people are just hopping on to work collaboratively but we don't necessarily have to go through the whole agenda. Yeah. So I was, I wasn't sure what we decided on there as a question. Does that make sense to everyone?

Harold Davis: Yeah, it sounds good to me. The, the one or two, I don't know, issues that take priority for the meeting, and then some type of asynchronous writeups sounds like it would be the most time efficient. at least. Because I know just from a couple of those meetings where we, you know, walk through each topic and, you know, took the time to address the action item together during the meeting, it can be pretty timely or, you know, may feel rushed, so the asynchronous makes sense. But then also, it did, I did enjoy the, the top, the meetings where we did you know come together to, to address action items. 

Jenny Mith: Okay, yeah, I think it's someone had suggested that we sort of alternate between the two formats as well. So if that's a possibility. But yeah, thank you, Harold for clarifying. Okay, so are there any other thoughts on this agenda item about outstanding work and how we want to organize or can we move forward? 

Jenny Mith: Cool, sounds great. Okay so we are going to dive right into this grant proposal Brittany, actually, do you, would you like to give a quick update on where we are with grant.io. You don't have to give now if you aren’t prepared for it, but I thought maybe some context could be helpful for this recap.

brittany: Sure, yeah. So grant.io built out a, a platform for us. So it's an open source platform. It allows you, basically the application process to be a little easier. So like you would sign up for the platform, you would submit an application. That application could then get comments from the community, from people on, you know, reviewing the application. You can get approved that way. So it basically helps just create a workflow for all of those steps. 

brittany: And then on the you know the Foundation side, it allows us to kind of move things into either, you know, approved or accepted or rejected or passed, so that tool is actually now built. So both myself and Ryan have just like demo accounts and we, our goal is to kind of just go through and tested, make sure that it's working on the admin side and then being able to open it up to folks who are interested in maybe, you know, who are already active members of our community, but in applying for grant, could actually be kind of testers and actually go through the process and fill out their application. 

brittany: So that would be a real application, but it just may take you know it, you know, there may be some bugs in the code. We just want to make sure that it moves as seamlessly as possible. And then the goal would be probably by the end of August, we would actually announce the grants program and to the broader community. But we would want to start with having a few of the people who are already interested, have already been thinking about doing work on this, have their grants already proposals already live in the system before that. 

brittany: So I think the governance working group would be, you know, great because talked about applying for a grant. You could also help get feedback on the process. You know, is it confusing, are there too many steps, like you know did it, did it work all right? And so that kind of beta testing would be great. Just, then we can have a more seamless experience and also we can start, you know, actually approving grants and, and getting those jump started, you know, by the end of August. 

brittany: So that’s the update, I don't know if anyone has questions. I did see all the feedback on the GitHub post. If you haven't seen it yet, have kind of the template that we would recommend for applications. So the types of questions that would need to be answered in those applications, I think the only one of the missing pieces working on the background as well as just around what the contract looks like and what are the requirements for actually paying out the money, since we will paying it out in US dollars to begin with. You know, like who's going to sign the contract if there's multiple people on an application? What is that contract entail? Just making it very clear, since there's no ambiguity around like you know, are there tax implications or jurisdiction restrictions. Things like that. 

Jenny Mith: Well, thank you for the update, Brittany. Any questions from anyone on grant.io

Lane Rettig: I’m just curious about… So, so, Brittany, thank you for introducing that, that's really helpful background. You said it's an open source platform, which is great. I had asked this in the GitHub issue so you may be pre-empting my question, but um like, what is like the review process itself. It sounds like there’s kind of a back end admin thing. It sounds like that's probably not like super open or transparent. But I'm wondering how much sort of transparency, there is that process. How much transparency, you know, we slash the Foundation want to bring to that process and what that might look like.

brittany: Yeah, I think the goal would be to deliver all feedback to applicants in, on their public application page. So you know if there's like missing or incomplete information, being able to really relay that In this public manner. So on the back end, it's just more of an administrative tool so that like we can kind of change the status of people. So not everyone would have that authority - like you would have to be an admin to be able to change status. But in terms of the commenting and feedback, that could all happen through, you know, in the public domain. And I think that that would be important to, you know, state like either why, you know, why there needs to be more information, or what we see is missing, or maybe needs to be re-scoped, or more clarity on milestones, or if it's approved what, what like that entails as well. 

brittany: So yeah, I think, you know, trying to make it as transparent as possible and then just using the tool as a way to kind of manage the workflow and stuff like a Google Sheet or so. And maybe that answers your question? Maybe there's a missing component that we should consider too. 

Jenny Mith: I think on a similar note, for me, there's some questions around the Grants Committee. Maybe I missed this in a previous update, but who is on that committee and whether there are opportunities for… I know it says here issue that you we could open this up to the community for feedback and approval. So I guess for like this first iteration, is there an MVP version of the Grants Committee, but eventually it would evolve to include choices from the community or nominations for the from the community, in the way that we've done with the Stacks Foundation Board. 

brittany: Yeah. Yeah. And I think the nice thing is with the committee is I think it can be potentially more loosely structured. Initially the decision making will probably be you know as MVP, just with the Foundation. So Jude, myself, and then Ryan who joined our team, so we will be looking through. Now I think where the community can be a big help is being able, if we're able to tap experts who maybe have a specific expertise around what the grant is asking for. So if someone is applying for, you know, the governance working group grant, you know, if we didn't have as much knowledge we would tap into this group and be like, hey, can you guys comment, do you have any feedback or questions for this particular applicant. So I think initially, it would be informal and then I think as as we test the process. I'm sure we will recognize that there's definitely aaps in like our, our knowledge set. So we want to potentially either formally have a committee and then figure out, like what that decision making looks like - is that ultimately the Foundation's decision? Like myself. 

[unknown]

Jason: I’m losing audio on my side. I’m not sure if that’s just me.

brittany: …it more of an o… some questions that probably initial. Sorry, can you guys here me? 

Jenny Mith: I was also, but it’s fine now.

brittany: Sorry, yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I think the goal would be to make sure that we can deliver on the process first, with just the, the very small group and then be able to improve it over time and kind of answer some of those questions of How does the committee look; what authority do they have; how big is it; how do people get on that committee, and I think it's definitely separate though from something like the board, which is more of a formal legal constraint which we need. You know we have a lot of governance already set up for it, but this would need its own governance. 

Phillip Roe: Now my concern is how this principles of ecosystems will be applied. So then probably that will be something that we have to put a way of kind of evaluation [<unknown] of how that adds to or encourages the ecosystem to be formed. And as we have learned is not only the technical aspects that we're talking about it, but also the how that we will create them a base of for the ecosystem. And so that's something that is very important. And so then the people that have to participate in the evaluation [<unknown] has to have this vision of the… Of what we are trying to do is the governance and why do we want to capture that that those values and principles that that we want, we want that to be inherit in the in the circus [<unknown] BlockStack ecosystems of the Stacks ecosystem. So that's something that we had to see how we evolve in that Because people that are probably very technical, you know, able, and maybe they, they have some, some, they don't think about you know which other, they don't know much about you know the, the principles are based in BlockStack community. So those are, it's quite challenging, you know. And so probably your MVP approach is not, not bad, but it had maybe has a bit, bit broader than that those members.

Ryan Arndt: I think what could be helpful… I could start, I'd be happy to do this, I'm starting because I used to be a teacher. And I've done a lot of assessments like taking those ecosystem values and creating a rubric that could be used across projects. And that'd be something that would be valuable in assessing any of the grant proposals, I think. 

Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think that's a good idea and I, my sense is that that kind of document will probably grow and evolve over time the more that we learn about our ecosystem. 

Jenny Mith: And actually, not to get to off topic here, but I do think it's related. Dan and I were talking about these early stages of decision making and it's you know, it's wonderful that we have the Stacks Foundation here to take the lead and we have ourselves, this governance working group, to take lead on a lot of these decisions. But the reality is that, you know, we have a community of thousands of people and it's, it's difficult to know like exactly what everybody wants. And at the stages, there's an MVP version of governance that we’re operating off of. So I think that the term that we coined, the phrase that we coined was Minimum Valuable Governance or MVG and setting sort of milestones for ourselves in, in the evolution of governance is important, right. 

Jenny Mith: So whatever the, the governance working group decides to tackle between now and the end of the year in this puzzle will, will be a reflection of like the, the MVP version of governance that we have now, but the more decisions we make in the more people we have on board and the more sophisticated that that our governance model old should, should be. And so, you know, we should probably set goals - like by the end of the year, we should have a Grants Committee in place that is representative of the different entity ecosystem. So, you know, right now we're making some decisions informally and we're doing our best to get feedback from the community, but it's definitely the case that we're not capturing what everybody wants because that's kind of impossible. But yeah, I think it's important that we capture that in, the in the grant proposal as well. Just like the planting the seeds of governance and also planning for like the long, long term or the longevity of governance, so that it can mature with the ecosystem. 

Jenny Mith: So like something like Ryan suggestion about the stock, collating all those values is, is important for evaluating projects, but that will definitely change, the more that we learn about our ecosystem and the more that different entities grow in the ecosystem as well. 

Jenny Mith: Any other comments or questions there on, on just like the purpose of, of this grant for this proposal. Okay, great. Thank you everybody for, for those comments. So thank you. Brittany for that update - just like a very quick summary based on the discussion we had during the retro. And one of the, it seems like one of the challenges that we were encountering as a governance working group was basically you know where to invest our time effort, we all have slightly different interests in Governance for the Stacks ecosystem and but ultimately our main goal is to serve the community. And that involves solving the most pressing issues that are blocking community members from, you know, achieving our ecosystem-wide goal of building a user owned internet. 

Jenny Mith: And so I started a doc. I'm going to share this here. Of potential goals and work streams that we as the governance working group could tackle in the next three to six months or so. One of the reasons for doing this is number one to be public and transparent about the work that we're doing with the wider community right? We've, we've had this core group of people who've been tackling governance for the last few months, which has been great. And we've been able to give you some visibility into the work that we're doing. By applying for a grant with this proposal, this is, that's like the ultimate way of showing the community: A) These are the things that we're working on now. And this is what we want to get both, you know, financial and social support on. Do you have any feedback? Are there any issues that are more pressing that we're not tackling? 

Jenny Mith: But this grant proposal would also take into account things that we as community members know have been an issue for a long time. Things like, right, like Radix. And yeah, I see Dan's point here about developing a proposal for how this group would evolve to allow wider community participation. That's a huge issue, right? Like we don't, it's still unclear what the stacks community has authority over in terms of decision making. So that's potential work stream that we could tackle. I've seen app mining come up in discussions, a lot. So maybe we as the governance working group wouldn't be responsible for developing the full blown app mining proposal, but we would be responsible for maybe starting a subcommittee that, that's focused on researching and developing an app mining draft. 

Jenny Mith: So, you know, this is, this is a way to serve the community and address its most pressing needs in the next three to six months and also build credibility for the governance working group as a group that is truly reflective of the Community's interest and the Community's projects and needs. So if you haven't gotten a chance to go into that doc, please go in there, it's you know, it's totally out of brainstorming sort of things now. I'm not sure how we want to tackle like voting on the work streams that we want to include in this proposal. I based on what I know about this group I feel like we're going to be pretty ambitious with what we want to achieve, but I think, that's, that's a good thing. Is everyone clear on, on why we want to submit this proposal and, and what the purpose of it is?

Harold Davis: Well, from me end it seems pretty clear. I'm excited to get things off the ground that the Community's been excited about on the different fronts - collections being in addition to this thing that you mentioned. So it'd be interesting to see ho,w how this can help, help these, these different fronts. Thank you kindly for this.

Lane Rettig: Jenny, just a quick question. Is this something that you see turning into a single individual grant proposal on behalf of the governance working group, or do you think it's something that hypothetically, some subset of people, you know, can take one or two of these things and they're especially excited about and it could kind of turn into like multiple proposals? Just, just curious. 

Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think, um, I think it's I think it's a little bit of both. This question has been asked and it's gonna be, it's been like tricky to wrap my head around because again, like this core group of people has been consistently working on the governance working group issues in general. But I think it's very clear that some of us have different interests. So we're working on this together, but some of us have like different backgrounds, expertise. There are things that we could do, there are things that I can work on and do a better job than, than others. And so I, I don't know what everyone else thinks. 

Jenny Mith: Like I was thinking that maybe this group would be taking the lead on writing the proposal and sort of laying out all these work streams, but once this grant proposal is accepted, it should be inviting to other community members to plug in where they think they can fit in - to get in where they fit in, right? So if we, if one of the work streams that we as a governance group are committing to starting is app mining, maybe someone like Dan or Juliet who have been experienced with app mining before would volunteer to take the lead on just starting a subcommittee focused on developing and outlining proposal. And, you know, we would then set a date for themselves and then would have you know updates that they would share asynchronously with us throughout the governance working group’s time. But yeah, I imagine this, this proposal giving this group like the ability to plant seeds for community projects and those projects sort of spitting out into other smaller groups, like you mentioned Lane, with people who are passionate about, like, very singular focuses.

Juliet Oberding: So Jenny, are we going to have a one specific, is this one grant covering all these workflows. Is that how you envision this? Because I'm having a little bit of difficulty understanding how this is going to work or individual grants for each of these stream, work streams. Can you explain a little more? 

Jenny Mith: Yeah I would sort of pose that to the group to decide what would be best. I always thought that, I didn't think that we would tackle all of these work streams in this one proposal. I figured it would be a matter of prioritization, so figuring out amongst ourselves which of these are the most pressing, and we could do that more methodically as well, right? So we could survey community members so we could you know we could pick our top five and say, like, hey, these, these are issues we've seen blocking community members from doing the work that they want to do and we would like to help tackle these in the next three to six months. You know, what is, what are your, what are your top issues, you know, what would you like the governance working group to take the lead on? 

Jenny Mith: And so that's, that's where my thinking was with that. And as far as what we commit to, I think that that is also for the group to, to decide. So I was like I was modeling this after the proposal that I'd seen for, for Cosmos and they I think their deliverables were a lot less, they’re a lot more basic right there. Their deliverables were like “In the next three months, we're going to start a blog series. We're going to establish like updates. So, we're going to have these working calls, and we want funding from the community to support us in doing that.” 

Jenny Mith: Whereas, you know, for us, we're taking that model, but we're addressing very pressing issues within the Community. That makes sense, really yet. Does that clarify things a little more?

Juliet Oberding: Yes, it does clarify. And I remember looking at the Cosmos proposal and also being happy that we'd probably accomplished, we definitely accomplished most of the stuff that they had set out in their proposal. So this is, 

Jenny Mith: Yeah, without finding. 

Juliet Oberding: Yeah. Thank you. 

Jenny Mith: No problem, and just a quick point… Yeah, so just this, this final point and this grant, we would be asking for funding. I don't necessarily know what the funding would be for - again like that's up to the group to decide, right. I would assume that, you know, if we were to apply for a small grant, like thousand dollars or so, some of that money would go toward a bounty that we would want to oversee for Radix, right. Or I think it's perfectly reasonable to want to use some of that money to fund meetings where we're having like coffee with each other. I know Juliet bought the stuff and I totally agree - If we're working together and spending so many hours on this, it's nice to have virtual meets where everyone has coffee or donuts and it's a good way to connect with the community. So that funding could go toward that as well but bounties, meetings, anything else that we want to support. I think that's what the grant would take.

Phillip Roe: Can I see some that is of course, the meaning of this, they have to be executed thoroughly so because those are, you know, all, we all need that, those, those lines of work. So probably something that will be general, that we can we can be general, and then the other ones that more specific, like in terms of development and, and also some in relation with research and, and development. It could be something that's all the work we're also as Danny [<unknown] mentioned. But essentially, both, all of them, you know, we'll have to see a way that we can advance it. So I don't see if one of those could be left out or left behind. 

Jenny Mith: Is anyone else losing audio? 

[<unknown]: A little bit. 

Dan Trevino:  Can I say something? Can you all hear me? Yeah, I was just gonna say I was asking just to make sure I understood. The, the list that we're looking at now from Jenny in the, in the document is just a starting point for potential areas that we can focus on with this grant proposal, right? So the grant proposal is, is a small thing to kind of just start building that muscle, start understanding the process, start working through kinks. It wouldn't, it's not necessarily a something that's going to, we're not planning to fix everything in this one shot. 

Dan Trevino: So my understanding is we're going to like pick one thing to focus on out of this list - find something or two or three things to focus on, on this list. Put a grant proposal together to focus on those, these other items that may not make that initial cut would be things that we could stick on our backlog and, and you know, potentially work through later. That how I understand you, Jenny? 

Jenny Mith: Yeah, like areas of future research like the, like the white papers. I think, I guess, one thing I should add is the way that you've often structured your questions, and thought about your questions is, is really helpful. And so, you know when, when we put, when we throw something like radical on there, it's very obvious to us why that's important, but thinking along the lines of you know why that's important for the community and framing it in a in a governance sort of way. Right. So why do we want to tackle Radix? Well because it's blocking so many community members on, on building this and if they can't build this, then they can't continue to contribute to our mission of building user owned internet. And so on and so forth. So just thinking about these work streams as things that contribute to, just community participation or augment community participation. If we're, if they're blocking community members, I feel like that is, that's a governance issue, right like naturally. That's something that this group would want to tackle and, and we would have to articulate that in the proposal, which can be the hard part, but will also be, you know, really good exercise for us as well. 

Phillip Roe: I agree with the strategy.

Jenny Mith: Great. Thanks, everyone. It's, I’m glad we’re all receptive - this is really exciting. Okay, so I've shared this doc with these potential deliverables. Now I'm just sort of wondering what, how we want to move forward. I can see an action item just being everybody contributing more ideas to these work streams. Eventually, you know, voting on our top ideas and then, I kind of, this was ambitious but I threw in here that we can start an outline for the grant. I think that's probably an action item for later, given that Brittany shared the, the grant guidelines recently, but how... 

Jenny Mith: Okay. So after we all share our ideas or brainstorm our ideas for grant commitments or potential work streams and how would we want to go about prioritizing them and do we want to go with a methodical route that we discussed with like surveying community members to make sure that the these work streams be their most pressing work streams? Or do we want to sort of just decide for ourselves and put the grant out there, write the grants first and ask for feedback. I think that there were a couple of ways we could go about this. 

Dan Trevino: What's the, what's the timeline? I heard end of August for starting to test the process, is that right? So we really only have a couple of weeks. 

Jenny Mith: Yeah. Yeah, you know, as usual, as soon as possible is always best. I think… so, Brittany mentioned that, and we would be announcing a grant file platform at the end of August. I mean, number one, I think it's important that we take our time with something as important as this, but you know, number two, I think that we could probably develop this in the next two, two weeks, two to three weeks. I'm happy to take the lead on like writing the grant. That’s the most time consuming thing. But I think what is important, before we even start writing it, it's just getting those ideas down and getting some sort of signal from community members that what we think are pressing issues, are actually pressing issues for the community. Does two to three weeks sound reasonable for everyone?

Phillip Roe: For the Kicks, the Kickstarter? I think this is possible. To decide which are the topics that we want to encourage or to prioritize This, it can be done, I think, of course, we have to work.

Jenny Mith: All right, Phillip. You and I can split half and hour… No, I’m joking. Okay. So, Brittany, just to clarify, if we were to write a draft in the next couple of weeks, we would then be able to… So we would be able to submit a draft to grant.io for feedback from the community by August 27. Was that the date that you'd mentioned?

brittany: Yeah, so that, that week is when we would announce it, so even possibly you know if things work out like it would be able to be posted before, sort of, that announcement launch date. And then we could just circulated internally, try out the tool, and people could get feedback. But yeah, if you could, the week of the 27th, if the application is all done, I think that'd be great because we plan to announce it with more press and maybe there'll be more eyeballs more feedback and everything on it by then, as well. That’s a good point. 

Jenny Mith: Okay, okay. So August 27 is our deadline. For that week, that’s our deadline. That's good to know. It feels like when I was writing my dissertation. Although I wrote that in three days, not two weeks. So this is that…

Phillip Roe: We have to do that because it is time is running out. So we won't be perfect, but we have to do it. 

Jenny Mith: All right, great. Okay. So as an action item, do we all, we all agree that an action item that makes sense is for everyone to hop into that gov grant proposal doc I shared in to share ideas for work streams. That's a, that's the reason why an action item and then, were there any opinions on whether we should share these ideas with the community and ask them what their top priorities are or should we decide amongst ourselves, write the proposal, and have the community give feedback at that stage. The former will obviously hold us up a little bit. The, the ladder risk, runs the risk of us getting it completely wrong. 

Phillip Roe: I’d like to ask Lane, if you remember something from the survey that it gives us some feedback on that, on this. At least you know the principles. Because that's something that we can say that it's come from the survey. And if it's not, because we cannot be all the time, you know, doing feedback and asking for feedback and, but we have to do something that will be in action, and then have the feedback. But it's because it's too much analysis. And then we don't advance you know and that's my main thing. But in terms of the survey can help us on that. I don’t know, it's just…

Lane Rettig: Phillip, I’m with you. My, my two cents on this would be… what is that phrase “Ask for forgiveness, not permission.” 

Jenny Mith: Great. So it sounds like we are leaning toward the latter.

Dan Trevino: Again, this is a, maybe I'm misunderstanding, but I want to make sure I do understand. This is again more for testing out the process and while we want to accomplish something, that's not the primary goal here. So I think picking a couple of things and moving forward is, in my opinion, fine. Because we know we're not going to get to everything and we…, everything on this list. We know the list will grow and we want to kind of work through the process, first primarily, right? Yeah, so.

Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think that's a good point and you know, we can be strategic in picking the things that we think we could really, we can really knock out of the park right because part of this is, is building credibility for this process and is building credibility for the governance working group amongst community members. If, if the governance working group is meant to be representative of this wider community of thousands of people, I think it's, it's important to demonstrate that we can deliver. So that's, that's a good point, Dan - just like picking the things that we think and we can tackle best. So okay.

Lane Rettig: Yeah, I'm here agreeing here. Yeah, I just wanted to yeah what Dan said just now. I think the people in this group have enough of a handle on what's going on throughout the ecosystem that if you know, if the task at hand is like pick two things, you know, that are realistic grant applications that will add value to the community. Like, I think that we should have no trouble doing that. And as the list grows, of course we want there to be more touch points and more ways for community members to come in and make other proposals. But as far as bootstrapping the process, I have a high degree of confidence.

Jenny Mith: Totally. Yes, this group is great. All right. Okay, so we've got our action items established. We're ready. We have a deadline in place and we're all really excited to start this process. So is there anything I'm missing beyond those things. Awesome. Okay. Thanks everybody. This was great.

Phillip Roe: Well, nice seeing you again in the in this working group. I got lost some weeks ago and sorry about that, but I'm glad I'm back. 

Jenny Mith: We are too. All right, well, I guess... So we will reconvene and check out this list of ideas next Thursday, same time. See you all later.

Jason Schrader: Thanks everybody, have a good week.

[Overlapping goodbyes]
