# 20201203 Governance Working Group Call 29

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:01.680 --> 00:00:14.700
Jenny: Okay. Hi, everyone. Welcome to working group call number 29 and. Today is Thursday, December 3 2020 and it's 16 minutes past noon Eastern Time.

2
00:00:15.389 --> 00:00:28.380
Jenny: And we have a few people on the call today and I assume more will join as we move along. So we'll just start with our stand ups so I can start. And as far as what I'm working on right now.

3
00:00:29.790 --> 00:00:36.960
Jenny: Like I was working on the just getting revisions and edits in for the grant application, but that was

4
00:00:37.560 --> 00:00:44.430
Jenny: That was the last week, and it was proof last night, which is really exciting. So I'm sure we'll have a little more discussion about that as the call goes on.

5
00:00:44.790 --> 00:00:51.210
Jenny: As far as other governance related things and working on. I've mentioned this before. And we're finally moving along on this, but

6
00:00:51.840 --> 00:01:11.130
Jenny: Two of our community members Russ and Jonathan have worked to build in a moderation bot. And we use moderation bots and discord all the time. We use a book called me six, you probably see notifications from that but but the difference with this spot is that it should be community owned

7
00:01:12.150 --> 00:01:15.510
Jenny: And all of the moderation actions.

8
00:01:16.650 --> 00:01:21.540
Jenny: Are public and community members can opt into these different roles without there being

9
00:01:22.350 --> 00:01:30.360
Jenny: A centralized gatekeeper like me, for example, assigning those roles so I can go into more technical detail about it another time. And I can share

10
00:01:31.140 --> 00:01:40.890
Jenny: The technical details about the the body itself with this group after this call, but I'm really excited about that. And we're going to write a grant application for it.

11
00:01:41.640 --> 00:01:49.740
Jenny: To keep up development of the body and to also compensate Jonathan for deploying Bob to the server and testing it.

12
00:01:50.100 --> 00:02:02.640
Jenny: with community members. So, that is what I'm working on. No blockers yet something that I would welcome and encourage is participation in our test server from anyone in this group. So we have a test server.

13
00:02:03.120 --> 00:02:08.130
Jenny: We're, we're working with the bot and just testing out any kinks and see if there any new features that we can

14
00:02:08.940 --> 00:02:20.430
Jenny: Build out for the body before we deploy that the goal is to deploy it by the time may net launches. So by the time the community technically decentralized is we'd also have this decentralized thought to work with and

15
00:02:21.990 --> 00:02:28.950
Jenny: I think that testing it with the community would be really helpful because there are a bunch of stretch features that we want to add like

16
00:02:29.370 --> 00:02:37.740
Jenny: tallying up points for good moderation and building out a dashboard for community members to actually see the moderation work that they've put in

17
00:02:38.190 --> 00:02:52.680
Jenny: Totally a stretch goal, though. I think that's something that will go into 2021 but having community members there for that feedback would be helpful. Yeah. In the next few weeks, I expect to submit a grant application for this or have Jonathan submit a grant application for this.

18
00:02:54.210 --> 00:03:02.010
Jenny: Yeah, that is my stand up. I'm just going to move along here, Judy, or next on my screen. Do you have a stand up in like share

19
00:03:03.210 --> 00:03:13.020
Jude Nelson: Some minimal progress. We're going to start moving the steps out of the blockchain be thrown into a separate stacks go the scripts directory that Jason set up for me this week and

20
00:03:14.040 --> 00:03:24.720
Jude Nelson: I think I don't want to speak for them exactly who's not on this call, but I think we're going to see a couple of sips in the next few weeks. Hopefully that discuss possible tokens standards.

21
00:03:24.750 --> 00:03:26.160
Jude Nelson: To be using on the watch in

22
00:03:26.730 --> 00:03:42.930
Jude Nelson: And help keep that going. And this week I'm going to be submitting a small step that describes a few changes when we want to make to our token system to make these other steps, more, more tenable but actually serve also as an example. An example SIP to build off of for such future sips.

23
00:03:46.020 --> 00:03:49.110
Jenny: Thanks you. Any, any blockers or anything. This group can help with

24
00:03:50.130 --> 00:03:50.670
Jude Nelson: No. Okay.

25
00:03:56.430 --> 00:03:57.300
Jenny: Yeah, thank you.

26
00:03:58.200 --> 00:04:02.580
Harold Davis: So, this this week I've reached out to Wilson.

27
00:04:03.630 --> 00:04:09.240
Harold Davis: Also fragrant, although I haven't, I haven't had too much discussing with finger yet, and specifically about

28
00:04:10.320 --> 00:04:19.950
Harold Davis: That one half of the grant. They got approved yeah excited about both the code of conduct and the voting mechanism grant getting approved recently and

29
00:04:21.210 --> 00:04:23.850
Harold Davis: One of the things I was discussing with Wilson was any

30
00:04:24.930 --> 00:04:30.090
Harold Davis: If there's any if it's applicable policy kit to block survey.

31
00:04:32.040 --> 00:04:33.180
Harold Davis: His response was that it's

32
00:04:34.260 --> 00:04:41.670
Harold Davis: And we can get into a little bit later, but his responses that there may be some features added two blocks of a letter on that make policy kit.

33
00:04:42.630 --> 00:04:51.870
Harold Davis: A little bit easier to use. As of right now, they may be limits to block survey, but I'm also interested in furthering discussion with food group in

34
00:04:52.380 --> 00:05:15.570
Harold Davis: Being able to wrap policy kit around, you know, figures, oh I chat, which has a discord bridge and similar to the tool that Jenny mentioned it allows for usually, you know, different templates to to put on top of your, your, your conventional moderation.

35
00:05:17.130 --> 00:05:27.660
Harold Davis: To kind of free people out of the kind of normal another benevolent dictator which or other structures that usually come about in just the conventional

36
00:05:28.290 --> 00:05:40.800
Harold Davis: Moderation on platforms, as I'm sure the tool agenda just mentioned also addressed to some degree, but there's also some interesting things in terms of how expressive policy kit can get in terms of

37
00:05:41.970 --> 00:05:47.310
Harold Davis: Polling or even voting juries and things like this corms even look possible

38
00:05:48.300 --> 00:05:56.970
Harold Davis: Day triggers look possible. And these are all things that look like they can lend themselves to some of the important KYC features that

39
00:05:57.570 --> 00:06:03.330
Harold Davis: Jude felt was important for the voting mechanism. When we're thinking of building it from scratch.

40
00:06:04.020 --> 00:06:13.230
Harold Davis: So we're just looking at ways of being able to implement this without going from complete scratch. And so we can get into that a little bit more later but um

41
00:06:13.830 --> 00:06:23.910
Harold Davis: I've been having discussions with folks on that and reaching out to folks at the helm of policy kid and looking forward to what that can turn into in the future, guys. It also seems like

42
00:06:24.540 --> 00:06:30.000
Harold Davis: It also lends itself to the open design that we discussed was important credibility mechanism as well.

43
00:06:31.050 --> 00:06:38.310
Harold Davis: But other than that, I have a meeting later on today with the indigenous council that I've mentioned here before.

44
00:06:38.940 --> 00:06:48.840
Harold Davis: I'll be posting some things in discord on so that folks can join later on. I think it's been moved up to 5pm Eastern which is two o'clock Pacific time now.

45
00:06:49.770 --> 00:06:59.040
Harold Davis: But I'm also be recording, so I'll be keeping everybody up to date with that stuff and any blockers, as opposed to the voting mechanism just

46
00:06:59.940 --> 00:07:08.010
Harold Davis: Getting feedback from folks specifically free group and the folks. The folks at the handles policy kit.

47
00:07:08.520 --> 00:07:16.920
Harold Davis: On and seeing where we can go from there in terms of any other technical expertise as we work our way through this is voting mechanism and

48
00:07:17.280 --> 00:07:27.240
Harold Davis: Yeah, that that's what I'll be doing the next two weeks, most likely, as we put together a project management for for the voting mechanism going forward. But yeah, thank you. Thank you.

49
00:07:27.300 --> 00:07:33.030
Jenny: Really exciting. Yeah, we will probably discuss more on this call, but sounds like you've already got a good start on the work

50
00:07:35.430 --> 00:07:36.870
Jenny: And he's next Ryan.

51
00:07:37.860 --> 00:07:44.670
Ryan Arndt: Sure. So I'm just moving forward with getting the unavoidable grants and, you know, working on to get his potential partnerships.

52
00:07:45.630 --> 00:07:58.050
Ryan Arndt: With different like similar blockchains to especially to Q1, see what we can do all together. So folks have ideas and other ones that do you think would be like a good fit. Those have been not talking to block chain.

53
00:07:59.340 --> 00:08:00.990
Ryan Arndt: Is BS. I see a chain.

54
00:08:02.010 --> 00:08:06.120
Ryan Arndt: Someone have half. I always forget what it's called. After I think of it anyway.

55
00:08:06.990 --> 00:08:15.780
Ryan Arndt: Social Impact coalition. That's it. So for talking to them about potentially doing some sort of a hackathon slash grant that would roll into their incubator.

56
00:08:16.440 --> 00:08:28.920
Ryan Arndt: In the spring and around agriculture says where their incubator is so think could be some interesting ideas and things around that if that works out with them. So I'm still in conversation with someone on that.

57
00:08:30.540 --> 00:08:44.640
Ryan Arndt: And then reaching out to other block chains and then projects that are kind of similar in that social good space to see if there might be a fit for that as well as researching grants general and how grants are highlighted across

58
00:08:46.020 --> 00:08:54.390
Ryan Arndt: All sorts of different projects so swim. Make sure we have the best that we can get for what we're doing project here stacks foundation

59
00:08:55.260 --> 00:09:08.010
Ryan Arndt: But your governance wise, I'm happy that at all. That got approved on the grant to. It was really excited to see that when when you have that color all the different want to join us was that today at 645 Eastern

60
00:09:08.640 --> 00:09:10.290
Harold Davis: Sorry about the short notice. It is. It's

61
00:09:12.570 --> 00:09:14.010
Harold Davis: More just got the notice morning

62
00:09:14.340 --> 00:09:21.480
Ryan Arndt: Okay, cool. Yeah, definitely have to hear about that. So yeah, I'll join just put the link in the garden shadow Reverend or I'll make sure on there.

63
00:09:25.800 --> 00:09:27.780
Ryan Arndt: But yeah, and then blockers wise just

64
00:09:28.620 --> 00:09:33.600
Ryan Arndt: Reaching out to the right people. So if you have any ideas on other projects, Harold. You might know some of those of

65
00:09:34.650 --> 00:09:36.870
Ryan Arndt: Things that might be interested in having kind of like

66
00:09:37.680 --> 00:09:45.090
Ryan Arndt: The foundation could be a place where it prepares a project that they come through and then it grows into an incubator, like the Si, si is doing.

67
00:09:45.480 --> 00:09:53.790
Ryan Arndt: Or just a way that we can have act on like with PVC and then roll over into a grant can roll over into something, but just different ideas around that so

68
00:09:54.960 --> 00:10:02.460
Ryan Arndt: Yes, you open to any ideas people have for that. And then I'll reach out on their path would be great. Thanks much

69
00:10:03.630 --> 00:10:04.290
Jenny: Thanks, Ryan.

70
00:10:04.860 --> 00:10:06.810
Jenny: Jason, do you have a stand up like to share

71
00:10:08.790 --> 00:10:13.740
Jason Schrader: Yeah, I can give one real quick. So, no, I'm jumping on a little late here. So hello everybody and

72
00:10:13.740 --> 00:10:17.790
Jason Schrader: Congratulations again on the on the grant getting past that's awesome that came through.

73
00:10:18.150 --> 00:10:25.620
Jason Schrader: And on that same note, the grant that I applied for was approved so we're in the final stages of finishing that up as soon as that is done.

74
00:10:25.980 --> 00:10:36.840
Jason Schrader: I am going to go in and just tear up the repo and really fix a bunch of things up. So I'm excited to see some of those things moving forward. I don't have any blockers at this point and that will pretty much be my next two weeks.

75
00:10:37.170 --> 00:10:45.360
Jason Schrader: And then, of course, with the main grant you know the can be evil code of conduct is one that really rings true with me. So if there is somewhere I can help with that, I am happy to

76
00:10:45.690 --> 00:10:57.180
Jason Schrader: Kind of jump in and find a role in that. And then same with the voting mechanism, Harold. If there's anything that I can do for you as well just reach out to me, we can try and figure something out. And other than that, that would be it for me.

77
00:10:59.970 --> 00:11:08.550
Jenny: Thanks. Jason and Brittany. You can also get the stand up late. Assuming it would be the same as the stacks foundation updates. So if you'd like to go into that now.

78
00:11:09.900 --> 00:11:10.620
Jenny: You're welcome to

79
00:11:11.760 --> 00:11:12.840
Jenny: Give um

80
00:11:13.350 --> 00:11:26.130
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yeah, I think at the sex Foundation, a big focuses, you know, supporting the launch of stocks 2.0 and January, like the more public launch. And so we've been working on.

81
00:11:27.090 --> 00:11:37.140
Brittany (Stacks.org): figure out ways that grants can also help support that launch. So putting together a wish list of some potential grants you know everything from creating content to

82
00:11:37.920 --> 00:11:44.550
Brittany (Stacks.org): Creating tools that would help with a launch. So those obviously don't have to be done by January 15 but

83
00:11:45.210 --> 00:11:53.640
Brittany (Stacks.org): Coinciding with that launch it would be great to have some grants in the pipeline that would help develop out those those assets over the first couple of months after launch

84
00:11:54.120 --> 00:12:02.040
Brittany (Stacks.org): So we're working on that as well as the upgrade to grants.io so moving from GitHub to a new platform.

85
00:12:02.820 --> 00:12:09.390
Brittany (Stacks.org): To issue grants and hopefully make it even easier to like participate give feedback see status of things.

86
00:12:10.260 --> 00:12:20.100
Brittany (Stacks.org): So this is something that's been in the works for a number of months but Ryan's actually been doing a ton of work, just making sure we get all set up with the platform and

87
00:12:20.850 --> 00:12:31.260
Brittany (Stacks.org): Trying just continue to improve that experience. Yeah, so that's because of the main things the foundation. We do have a

88
00:12:32.010 --> 00:12:41.010
Brittany (Stacks.org): A MEET THE BOARD MEMBER call tomorrow. So if anyone can join and we're hosting or crowd past with Rodolfo who's from foundation capital who sits on the

89
00:12:41.370 --> 00:12:51.330
Brittany (Stacks.org): Back Foundation Board to he'll be answering some questions. So I would love to see you guys there too. If you have any questions or just ideas. I think I should be good competition.

90
00:12:54.840 --> 00:12:55.890
Jenny: Awesome, thanks. Brittany.

91
00:12:56.310 --> 00:13:01.800
Jenny: All right. And if there are no other one. Does anyone have any question on any of the stand ups that were mentioned

92
00:13:03.000 --> 00:13:09.060
Ryan Arndt: Either update actually from because I know Jason, you and I talked about freehold of the content that's being created there.

93
00:13:09.510 --> 00:13:10.620
Ryan Arndt: And how that could

94
00:13:10.950 --> 00:13:15.030
Ryan Arndt: Be applicable for a grant potentially or some some way the curation of it.

95
00:13:16.050 --> 00:13:23.250
Ryan Arndt: But I know that's just not the focus really right now. So just letting folks on the call. Nobody, nobody. You just mentioned that about

96
00:13:23.850 --> 00:13:35.610
Ryan Arndt: Where they might all fit just thinking like the contents probably already there in some way, but it's just not curated at this time, or of JC rain doing more of that has changed since last time we talked about

97
00:13:36.660 --> 00:13:44.910
Jason Schrader: I'm not quite but I do know, like we're slightly shifting our format. And the way we release challenges and do some things. So what I will do is I will

98
00:13:45.240 --> 00:13:51.570
Jason Schrader: Just have Patrick and see if there's anything he can do to help with that because that would more than likely come from him directly

99
00:13:52.140 --> 00:14:04.110
Jason Schrader: At least the initial initiative of what we're going to do with that. So I will reach out to him and try to get some more info as well because I like that idea. I mean, obviously, any resources we have anything we can do together as a community is going to be the best avenue to take

100
00:14:05.700 --> 00:14:06.480
Jason Schrader: Cool, thanks.

101
00:14:09.090 --> 00:14:09.690
Jenny: Alright, okay.

102
00:14:10.170 --> 00:14:13.410
Jenny: So with that we can move into action items.

103
00:14:19.650 --> 00:14:32.010
Jenny: Jason So you've just gotten a grant to do this. I don't know if you want to talk more about the grant that you got approved and whether that applies to I assume it applies to this issue.

104
00:14:33.330 --> 00:14:43.410
Jason Schrader: Yeah, yeah. And actually, the grant itself has as a whole bunch more info. But the basic idea is that you'd like some of our main areas of sharing information like where we used to upload the videos on

105
00:14:43.410 --> 00:14:44.580
Jenny: YouTube that kind of fell

106
00:14:44.580 --> 00:14:56.430
Jason Schrader: off a little bit, where the notes were stored and what was downloaded from each meeting kind of fell off a bit. So I wanted to come through and get everything completely updated and now that we have the foundation in place and we have this kind of

107
00:14:57.660 --> 00:15:05.160
Jason Schrader: We have such a better cadence now with how everything is working. So I wanted to take the time to really document and make it easy for

108
00:15:05.460 --> 00:15:10.890
Jason Schrader: Anyone to jump into those roles or update these items. But to do that requires catching back up.

109
00:15:11.340 --> 00:15:17.670
Jason Schrader: So that's mainly that the goal of this grant is to go through these different parts of our repository of our process and have our team.

110
00:15:18.000 --> 00:15:28.320
Jason Schrader: Get us back up today and hopefully leave a way for anybody to continue maintaining that on a one by one basis because it's a lot easier when you have one and compared to having to do many

111
00:15:32.520 --> 00:15:49.680
Jenny: Things, Jason, do we want to do you want to close. Well, do you want to close this now that he had already open up like a new issue that sort of list out what you plan to or that just copies over what is listed in the grant.

112
00:15:49.710 --> 00:15:55.320
Jason Schrader: Yeah, we can definitely close this one out. This was more just to let everybody in the group know and just kind to

113
00:15:55.890 --> 00:16:06.270
Jason Schrader: kind of talk about it as a group. And what I'm going to do from here is continue to give updates. So each of the milestones. I've set forth are pretty much one week milestones.

114
00:16:06.960 --> 00:16:14.400
Jason Schrader: That may happen a little faster, a little shorter. And in doing that, I'll give everybody kind of updates on what's going on and we'll be

115
00:16:14.910 --> 00:16:22.740
Jason Schrader: Aware of everything as it goes to, so that's that's perfectly fine. There's going to be a GitHub project board as well that tracks the issues and things I'm working on.

116
00:16:24.090 --> 00:16:24.570
Jason Schrader: Awesome.

117
00:16:24.930 --> 00:16:34.200
Jenny: Thanks, Jason. So I assume most of these here are going to be income based by that the work that you're doing with the grant. Right.

118
00:16:35.220 --> 00:16:41.550
Jason Schrader: So yeah number 116 one 479 and

119
00:16:43.230 --> 00:16:50.760
Jason Schrader: I don't know 14 I don't remember if I wrote that one in there too. But yeah, basically, as many as possible. I'm going to knock out and kind of do an overall look at things.

120
00:16:51.360 --> 00:17:00.720
Jenny: Okay, well, so I think that we can close those as well and it can do that after the meeting. The other two that are still here and

121
00:17:02.010 --> 00:17:04.260
Jenny: Harold is there I open this issue.

122
00:17:05.640 --> 00:17:10.590
Jenny: A few weeks ago, I don't know if you, you want to close it or if you want to add any, anything to it or open up a new issue.

123
00:17:12.060 --> 00:17:16.470
Jenny: And I think that I had completed a couple of things with this as well. So maybe

124
00:17:18.210 --> 00:17:19.110
It's well known.

125
00:17:20.190 --> 00:17:32.760
Harold Davis: Earlier completions myself. But, um, it's a it's possible to close this and then I can start a new issue, maybe you know pertaining to the meeting today recording, including the recording today.

126
00:17:36.030 --> 00:17:36.750
Jenny: Great, thank you.

127
00:17:38.100 --> 00:17:38.610
Jenny: And

128
00:17:39.090 --> 00:17:41.580
Jenny: It feels good to close out everyone

129
00:17:42.270 --> 00:17:55.590
Jenny: And this one the lane has been on in a little while. So we can probably keep this open, but just really quickly. We did actually Harold. I think that you are. This is where you found out about policy kit.

130
00:17:56.670 --> 00:17:57.120
Harold Davis: It's no

131
00:17:57.750 --> 00:17:58.080
No.

132
00:17:59.430 --> 00:18:10.680
Harold Davis: It's actually actually goes in line with some of our earlier research and the repo from Primavera because she she's associated with medical and policy kit is one part of medical

133
00:18:12.510 --> 00:18:13.920
Harold Davis: errors that have Berkman client.

134
00:18:13.920 --> 00:18:14.490
Jenny: And then

135
00:18:15.660 --> 00:18:22.860
Harold Davis: I think Eric 10 is out of Oxford and they work on a lot of the blockchain based stuff that they hope to be able to do, along with policy kit.

136
00:18:23.940 --> 00:18:25.830
Harold Davis: But yeah, there, there is some overlap there.

137
00:18:27.150 --> 00:18:32.550
Harold Davis: And there's even some overlap there with with what I just heard from from Brittany because

138
00:18:33.720 --> 00:18:43.110
Harold Davis: I was thinking of, you know, grants that can go along with with me net launch as well. And, you know, maybe even something along lines of collaborations with meta Gov.

139
00:18:43.710 --> 00:18:56.820
Harold Davis: For some things that figures been talking about and what we got a preview of with one of the last blocks I convince some about fair launches. And so I think there's some some collective incentives that

140
00:18:57.900 --> 00:19:08.160
Harold Davis: Maybe put together. Wish wish grant around and maybe facilitate some of the collaboration with with meta go somewhere along the lines of what Ryan was speaking about earlier.

141
00:19:08.850 --> 00:19:18.000
Harold Davis: And so yeah, I think that this is there's some overlapping things going on with the voting mechanism network. We're already

142
00:19:19.020 --> 00:19:19.710
Harold Davis: getting underway.

143
00:19:20.760 --> 00:19:21.210
Jenny: Okay.

144
00:19:21.780 --> 00:19:22.980
Jenny: Thanks for the contacts, Harold.

145
00:19:23.400 --> 00:19:24.750
Jenny: I think we can probably

146
00:19:25.350 --> 00:19:29.430
Jenny: I think rather than closing these issues. Jason just messaged me with a good

147
00:19:30.630 --> 00:19:45.090
Jenny: suggestion that I think applies to this as well, instead of closing this we can swap out the meeting action label for something a little more relevant. So this could be like reference or in progress or something like that. And we can figure that out asynchronously.

148
00:19:48.720 --> 00:19:55.680
Jenny: It's, I think, that does it for the meeting action items and moving on to discussion items.

149
00:19:58.920 --> 00:20:01.920
Jenny: So I just opened this one and

150
00:20:02.970 --> 00:20:13.710
Jenny: Just I figured I'd open it to get discussion going. And as I know that Harold and Juliet are already thinking about this, but just the grant project management. And I think that

151
00:20:14.460 --> 00:20:17.970
Jenny: We have it. We're pretty ambitious with having

152
00:20:18.510 --> 00:20:31.440
Jenny: A goal of completing a lot of this work by the end of Q4 2020 so that that that is a question as well, whether we want to reevaluate and give ourselves a little more time or if we think that's possible, then that's totally fine. I think

153
00:20:32.190 --> 00:20:41.820
Jenny: For each of these work streams in the grant proposal. We've mentioned that we want to complete them by the end of Q1 2021 but we should have

154
00:20:45.480 --> 00:20:54.540
Jenny: Working drafts of both Dakota calling mechanisms by the end of Q4 that essentially gives us the rest of this month. And so if we think that is realistic.

155
00:20:55.710 --> 00:21:11.820
Jenny: Probably worth getting started on figuring out weekly goals and tracking these work streams on on GitHub. But yet, that's my. Those are the questions that I had and from there paralleled and enjoy the edits, whatever you see is best for for each of these projects.

156
00:21:18.030 --> 00:21:18.690
Juliet Oberding: Hello everyone.

157
00:21:19.950 --> 00:21:21.540
Juliet Oberding: I'm just jumping in on this.

158
00:21:22.620 --> 00:21:25.230
Juliet Oberding: And I'm going to be setting up

159
00:21:26.520 --> 00:21:31.320
Juliet Oberding: Project Management for this over the weekend and then

160
00:21:32.610 --> 00:21:39.570
Juliet Oberding: Something that I'm going to post on Monday, I have some ideas and vision of being able to

161
00:21:40.620 --> 00:21:51.390
Juliet Oberding: Have everything transparent and be easily shared with the community. So the including you know Cello. Cello boards and things like that so

162
00:21:53.220 --> 00:21:54.900
Juliet Oberding: Just wanted to jump in with that.

163
00:21:58.320 --> 00:21:59.670
Jenny: Well, thanks. Julian. Is there any

164
00:22:01.170 --> 00:22:04.140
Jenny: Help that this group can provide with you and getting started, or

165
00:22:04.350 --> 00:22:06.720
Jenny: Do you just plan to get started. First, and we'll go from there.

166
00:22:08.400 --> 00:22:15.690
Juliet Oberding: I think I'm just going to get started with some of the ideas that I have and then pull everybody in on you know, beginning of next week.

167
00:22:17.550 --> 00:22:23.400
Juliet Oberding: everybody that wants to participate. And then, you know, really make it transparent for the community to

168
00:22:24.960 --> 00:22:26.550
Juliet Oberding: Add the opinions.

169
00:22:27.720 --> 00:22:37.050
Juliet Oberding: sort of approach it from a RFC sort of perspective in the beginning so people can put in their ideas and then

170
00:22:37.830 --> 00:22:44.580
Juliet Oberding: Just really keeping all the steps, transparent and open. And so it's really clear to

171
00:22:45.360 --> 00:22:55.680
Juliet Oberding: Folks, what what what we're doing as a governance committee on this project and what everybody who's, you know, wants to work on it is doing so.

172
00:22:56.460 --> 00:23:06.330
Juliet Oberding: That's, that's kind of what I was thinking about last night and apologies to everyone who I was, by being late in the evening. Their time last night.

173
00:23:08.310 --> 00:23:13.770
Jenny: No problem. Thanks, Julian Harold to do any help that we can provide

174
00:23:13.860 --> 00:23:14.520
Juliet Oberding: For you.

175
00:23:14.940 --> 00:23:16.830
Jenny: With you get started on on your work stream.

176
00:23:19.620 --> 00:23:23.460
Harold Davis: Know if anybody's interested in in policy kid and or

177
00:23:23.910 --> 00:23:27.870
Harold Davis: Has any ideas of besides ones that are presented and

178
00:23:28.410 --> 00:23:37.380
Harold Davis: And some of its there's another issue running somewhere exactly which tab. It's under where it is, but it may be closed now actually

179
00:23:38.490 --> 00:23:42.780
Harold Davis: But yeah, I can, I can reopen an issue or actually can

180
00:23:44.970 --> 00:24:07.710
Harold Davis: Comment here on this issue with some links to the white paper from policy kit and if anything rings a bell. Feel free to to to just help collaborate and, you know, I'm very limited. Technically, so anybody who feels, you know, up to the task, just, you know, I think policy kid takes very simple

181
00:24:09.060 --> 00:24:15.690
Harold Davis: technical expertise and so I'm planning to tackle it myself if if someone else isn't jumping so

182
00:24:16.680 --> 00:24:25.320
Harold Davis: Yeah, those are the only blockers, or things I could think of it as it comes to policy cater the voting mechanism on if there's any

183
00:24:26.040 --> 00:24:34.440
Harold Davis: things outside of policy kit that comes to people's minds when it comes to some of the things that we wanted to achieve with the voting mechanism. I'm all ears.

184
00:24:36.000 --> 00:24:36.960
Harold Davis: So yeah, thank you.

185
00:24:38.760 --> 00:24:45.390
Jenny: Thanks, Harold. I'm today to put you on the spot, but since that he sort of developed the original idea where there

186
00:24:46.650 --> 00:24:55.200
Jenny: Was there anything that you wanted to add in terms of the types of mechanisms we start to test. I know that you'd come up with an original formula and

187
00:24:55.890 --> 00:25:08.220
Jenny: We've talked about quadratic voting is as a group. And I think in the proposal, we're meant to choose to more tasked with the community. And I don't know if you have any suggestions on the direction we should go there.

188
00:25:10.830 --> 00:25:11.910
Jude Nelson: Isn't midwife.

189
00:25:12.210 --> 00:25:13.500
Jude Nelson: Brings choice voting.

190
00:25:14.190 --> 00:25:15.450
Jude Nelson: As as one option.

191
00:25:16.500 --> 00:25:20.010
Jude Nelson: Another option can be a different ways mechanism.

192
00:25:20.610 --> 00:25:32.760
Jude Nelson: Like you just do like a baseline. I don't think we're testing it all, for example, is like you know one person, one vote, and then to see how that goes without any consideration at all to like how long you've been in the project or something like that.

193
00:25:34.560 --> 00:25:36.030
Jenny: Cool. Alright, thanks.

194
00:25:37.170 --> 00:25:42.990
Jenny: And consideration. Any other questions or comments on the project management of this grant

195
00:25:49.290 --> 00:25:54.930
Jenny: All right, greats. Also, congrats. Everyone this is exciting to get this approved and

196
00:25:56.070 --> 00:26:04.710
Jenny: Both of these projects are definitely needed, especially with the main that launch on the horizon. So thanks, everyone, for all the work that you're putting in, and

197
00:26:05.820 --> 00:26:10.620
Jenny: I think that is a big thanks in advance to Julian Harold are taking the lead on these

198
00:26:12.480 --> 00:26:13.140
Ryan Arndt: Yay.

199
00:26:15.360 --> 00:26:18.540
Ryan Arndt: Stacks foundation monster eats grandson's Prince out money for you.

200
00:26:20.430 --> 00:26:23.280
Ryan Arndt: Or something like that, as long as they're good. You know what I'm saying.

201
00:26:25.980 --> 00:26:32.250
Ryan Arndt: Thank you for submitting it really happy that the foundation was able to support think they're really important so

202
00:26:34.290 --> 00:26:34.920
Jenny: Thanks, Ryan.

203
00:26:35.760 --> 00:26:49.470
Jenny: And. Okay. So for this one. I think we've mentioned this on a previous call, but this was just a thought i had i don't think that we're going to have the time to do this, between now and

204
00:26:50.070 --> 00:26:57.180
Jenny: The main net launch. So I was thinking for issues like this. We could label it with like a backlog sort of label.

205
00:26:57.630 --> 00:27:08.430
Jenny: And I don't know if new one is supposed to that because we've got a lot of good ideas that we're not necessarily able to to address and immediately. So in rather than closing them. We can just

206
00:27:08.430 --> 00:27:11.670
Jason Schrader: Actually, yeah. And for this one. It's a

207
00:27:11.700 --> 00:27:18.660
Jason Schrader: milestone for I went ahead and throw it in there, Sabrina. Look at the stack design standards and I plan to circulated.

208
00:27:18.660 --> 00:27:19.410
Jenny: With the community.

209
00:27:19.920 --> 00:27:24.300
Jason Schrader: And decide because this, this original icon was just something random that came up from a

210
00:27:25.290 --> 00:27:36.810
Jason Schrader: Gigantic con like it was a, you know, we put in stacks Gov. And this is what it spit out. Let's get with the triangles. But that is part of what I'll be tackling as well. And I just started putting together that Project Board. So I just dragged it over.

211
00:27:38.010 --> 00:27:40.350
Jenny: Okay. Sounds good. Jason so

212
00:27:40.380 --> 00:27:43.170
Jenny: Yeah, I guess I'll leave it up to you to decide if

213
00:27:43.530 --> 00:27:49.860
Jenny: This should this deserves a different kind of label and it sounds like you're going to tackle it through your grant work anyway.

214
00:27:52.830 --> 00:27:53.430
Jenny: And

215
00:27:54.750 --> 00:27:58.140
Jenny: This has been up here for a while. I don't know if we want to go into this

216
00:28:00.180 --> 00:28:01.950
Jenny: Don't necessarily need to maybe

217
00:28:04.350 --> 00:28:08.340
Jason Schrader: I think unless there's any new updates from anyone. We could, we could leave that one as is

218
00:28:09.660 --> 00:28:14.490
Jenny: No new updates. Do you want to go through these next few ones, Jason. I think they're probably

219
00:28:15.600 --> 00:28:20.910
Jason Schrader: Related here. And those are those are likely be related to the grant as well. Just the idea of developing

220
00:28:20.910 --> 00:28:36.300
Jason Schrader: specific roles, much like we have a moderator, you know, and to have a secretary responsible for notes a publisher responsible for putting content that we have out to the forum or somewhere else more accessible. So just kind of creating standardized roles but in bite sized pieces.

221
00:28:39.240 --> 00:28:41.280
Jenny: Thank you, and the town hall.

222
00:28:41.940 --> 00:28:45.090
Jenny: We've talked about this a few times.

223
00:28:46.230 --> 00:28:49.080
Jenny: Also, possibly a backlog issue for now.

224
00:28:52.260 --> 00:28:55.350
Jason Schrader: I think so. And I imagine. I don't know if

225
00:28:55.410 --> 00:29:06.990
Jason Schrader: We would set the foundation to kind of own that one and set it up or if that was something we were going to do as the community so there would be some some basic decisions there. But we, I think it would be a backlog item for now.

226
00:29:10.050 --> 00:29:15.150
Jenny: Yeah, it's an interesting one because I know that so I coordinate with with Brian and

227
00:29:15.900 --> 00:29:23.700
Jenny: Around the town hall for the entire sex community and around this tax ecosystem calls, just to make sure there isn't a ton of overlap and we're not

228
00:29:24.090 --> 00:29:33.390
Jenny: Exhausting community members with all these different events, which I'm sure happens anyway. But if there, if we wanted to have a different town hall.

229
00:29:34.080 --> 00:29:42.930
Jenny: Specifically, say for governance, I think that would be a different session if this were more more of like a general public call as, as mentioned, and

230
00:29:44.850 --> 00:29:56.130
Jenny: Maybe there's room to sort of coordinate and add more updates to the existing calls. So again, we can figure this out asynchronously. Unless someone has strong opinions.

231
00:29:57.990 --> 00:30:03.540
Phillip Roe: Hey, hi everybody there. I'm in that in this

232
00:30:04.380 --> 00:30:25.500
Phillip Roe: Subject. I think that probably as the committee's taken over the several activities that used to be, you know, or concentrated or centralized and in the PVC. We didn't really know. So then there was no centralized stuff for the community. I think that the

233
00:30:27.570 --> 00:30:35.610
Phillip Roe: The have as a way of changing culture probably is a good idea to try to do develop this

234
00:30:36.870 --> 00:30:46.380
Phillip Roe: Understanding and the general community that this is has like a governance and all the all the, all these aspects of our of our community.

235
00:30:47.880 --> 00:30:50.790
Phillip Roe: And so this is a matter of education and

236
00:30:52.020 --> 00:30:59.970
Phillip Roe: Because it still if we think that will own the the whenever we have done before then.

237
00:31:01.230 --> 00:31:12.390
Phillip Roe: And then now the community has to be the owner so still be a kind of friction of this transitions. You saw the way to develop this

238
00:31:13.470 --> 00:31:22.230
Phillip Roe: Community, the you know the transition to the community has to be empowered by by general knowledge of the governance. So the idea is to

239
00:31:22.890 --> 00:31:44.160
Phillip Roe: Not only do two by two for the working group of the governor's but also for the general, you know, not everybody will like to be there participating this and at least, you know, get to know that that this kind of governance in behind this institution that's people that are

240
00:31:45.990 --> 00:31:47.820
Phillip Roe: Committed to this governance.

241
00:31:49.260 --> 00:31:50.280
Phillip Roe: Laws, or whatever.

242
00:31:51.480 --> 00:31:58.590
Phillip Roe: That's my so we have to try to accomplish this. Hopefully before the launch of the mainland.

243
00:32:01.680 --> 00:32:03.450
Jenny: That's a good point. Philip. Do you think that

244
00:32:03.540 --> 00:32:05.520
Jenny: This is it would suffice to have

245
00:32:06.120 --> 00:32:12.960
Jenny: Like a governance section in one of these ecosystem or town hall calls that are already running or

246
00:32:14.700 --> 00:32:16.680
Jenny: Do you think that this should be completely community.

247
00:32:17.130 --> 00:32:21.570
Phillip Roe: Organized I agree, agree, yes. The with the section will be sufficient, and you should be

248
00:32:23.250 --> 00:32:33.240
Phillip Roe: Because this is a change of culture, still we, you know, our baby was born, and then we don't want to pass the baby to the community. So it's

249
00:32:33.690 --> 00:32:34.800
Jenny: It's difficult. It's

250
00:32:34.800 --> 00:32:43.050
Phillip Roe: Not easy so it's it's it's a new thing. It's not not been before, you know. So in the end, in the world is a new

251
00:32:43.770 --> 00:32:56.940
Phillip Roe: Concept that we and also block stacks on stacks and then change the name and who has the defined, you know, the concept that technologies and all that and still have the challenge to name.

252
00:32:57.870 --> 00:33:06.690
Phillip Roe: Two. We use LogStash to we do stacks. Should we use Foundation, but you know this still, you know, so this is a good idea to have

253
00:33:07.710 --> 00:33:08.730
Phillip Roe: A section listening.

254
00:33:10.590 --> 00:33:12.000
Phillip Roe: What I feel is yes.

255
00:33:15.180 --> 00:33:30.390
Jenny: Thanks yet noted, and thank you, Jason for taking this this comment down. And I think that's definitely doable. Unless Brian or by were to be opposed i'm not i don't think Brian would be either. And I don't want to speak, or I

256
00:33:31.080 --> 00:33:32.160
Ryan Arndt: Don't know for me, like,

257
00:33:32.310 --> 00:33:39.660
Ryan Arndt: The more even with the call to evangelist and each system call Louis I talked about having it be community moderated like in time and having

258
00:33:40.680 --> 00:33:47.400
Ryan Arndt: Having as much as possible, be because I want the foundation stuff enough to bring about this, but not as much to realize about being really grassroots

259
00:33:48.540 --> 00:33:57.030
Ryan Arndt: So, because it is a user user own internet. That means the users have to step up, but we have to make it so they can, so that's that's important.

260
00:33:58.140 --> 00:34:00.150
Ryan Arndt: That's an ongoing project for sure.

261
00:34:01.380 --> 00:34:09.690
Ryan Arndt: And I think these town halls could be. I mean, it's different. There's different ways of organizing information that. Yeah, I definitely don't want to have

262
00:34:10.680 --> 00:34:19.050
Ryan Arndt: Meeting fatigue that was part of the reason why these meetings. These two today got merged together, but doing it in the best way possible for the community.

263
00:34:20.070 --> 00:34:21.150
Ryan Arndt: Is really important to me.

264
00:34:22.890 --> 00:34:23.790
Ryan Arndt: And I think Jenny to

265
00:34:26.130 --> 00:34:26.790
Jenny: You right

266
00:34:28.470 --> 00:34:37.320
Jenny: It isn't. I think a governance section makes sense, especially now that we do have so many updates and you'd mentioned the the work that's going into sips process.

267
00:34:37.950 --> 00:34:46.500
Jenny: I know we've been talking about token standards, all of that. I think the voting mechanism. This moderation bottle that is as part of Community governance and

268
00:34:46.830 --> 00:34:53.580
Jenny: It definitely warrants its own section and would probably be a pretty long section to you. So I don't think there's any problem and adding that

269
00:34:54.870 --> 00:34:58.230
Jenny: Feature town hall or ecosystem call thanks Phillip breathing that

270
00:34:59.760 --> 00:35:06.720
Ryan Arndt: It's definitely the closest cause for sure. I'll put it back on a thing like it's really open to anybody wants to present on anything so

271
00:35:09.450 --> 00:35:17.040
Jenny: Okay, so we've noted that down and I think it can eventually after this, it can become a meeting action item actually

272
00:35:17.640 --> 00:35:23.640
Jenny: And this is kind of related the governance working group roadmap so lane isn't here, but I know that

273
00:35:23.970 --> 00:35:37.110
Jenny: This is something that other group members have expressed interest in I don't know how we want to approach this whether this is a backlog item or something that can be incorporated to one of our current work streams, open it up to discussion.

274
00:35:42.870 --> 00:35:43.530
Jason Schrader: On that one.

275
00:35:43.800 --> 00:35:44.430
Jason Schrader: Because this

276
00:35:44.460 --> 00:35:51.360
Jason Schrader: Is part of what we're trying to or what I'm trying to kind of orchestrate and put together is to make some easy ways for

277
00:35:51.930 --> 00:36:01.830
Jason Schrader: Small obtainable goals and things that we can do. I'm going to leave this one open for now because I'm still trying to decide where it fits in with my project scope and what I'm working on.

278
00:36:02.310 --> 00:36:14.550
Jason Schrader: But definitely open to comments, thoughts, and anything from anybody else as we go along. And I think there's. I mean, we've already done so much as a group that I just see opening up potential to do even more.

279
00:36:17.790 --> 00:36:22.320
Jenny: Cool, thanks. Jason I can add some comments here, and afterward to. I was thinking a little bit about

280
00:36:22.800 --> 00:36:33.720
Jenny: And so internally we use OKRs to organize our work and I've wondered whether that would be a good model for the governance group or for community groups just having

281
00:36:34.080 --> 00:36:46.410
Jenny: An objective for quarter and tapping cascading and Key Results from there and weather coming up with Objectives and key results would help us generate a roadmap more easily. So, and

282
00:36:47.130 --> 00:36:54.660
Jenny: I don't know if that's the best idea. It's just the one that I'm familiar with, but I can add, I can add that as a as a note, an idea for this afterward.

283
00:36:56.100 --> 00:37:07.980
Jason Schrader: Yeah, definitely. I mean, if you look at where we started to where we are now, even the thought of action items and discussion items. And the way we're trying to break up what we can do versus what we want to talk about versus how we want to handle things as a group.

284
00:37:08.010 --> 00:37:13.320
Jason Schrader: Is constantly evolving as it should, because it's only way we're going to continue improving as well.

285
00:37:15.240 --> 00:37:27.570
Ryan Arndt: It'd be very cool to in time, because if if the governance group ends up having like a protocol that works. It could be something that other new community groups use as well. I can potentially, if that works for them. It'd be like. Here, try this and see if this works for you.

286
00:37:36.300 --> 00:37:37.650
Jenny: Okay, so leave that open

287
00:37:37.740 --> 00:37:38.490
And

288
00:37:40.260 --> 00:37:52.530
Jenny: Fireside Chat. Nope. Nope. I skipped one Harold, is there anything you'd want to say we discussed this earlier, you know if there's anything else you want to add here or you mentioned opening new issues to cover updates.

289
00:37:53.250 --> 00:38:02.490
Harold Davis: Yeah, yeah, I think, on the other one. I might just make a comment somewhere. Um, and I could just make a comment here updating for for today's

290
00:38:03.450 --> 00:38:16.290
Harold Davis: Meeting that I mentioned the recording and also i can i can put something in there before the meeting starts and just to refresh folks that maybe weren't on the call when going over this initially in there while ago.

291
00:38:17.730 --> 00:38:27.270
Harold Davis: That these are you know hopefully can be turning the steps on looking forward to getting examples of the first steps that we that we get. We get through, so we have some good

292
00:38:27.900 --> 00:38:34.290
Harold Davis: You know, a good guidelines. I know there was some work on that earlier that I was paying attention to. And so

293
00:38:34.860 --> 00:38:44.010
Harold Davis: I've been paying attention to the first examples that we have. And anybody who's interested in helping me turn this this draft into real sips is

294
00:38:44.610 --> 00:38:57.960
Harold Davis: Is it please please add here and and the the gist of it is the importance of, you know, unconventional approaches to governance Primavera definitely be

295
00:38:59.400 --> 00:39:07.020
Harold Davis: And a Harvard research and blockchain has been, you know, a core reference for us in some of our early research in this in this working group.

296
00:39:08.130 --> 00:39:17.010
Harold Davis: Feel free to go back and look at some of that amazing some of the amazing work she's done that we've linked to in there in the repo somewhere. I know Juliet is

297
00:39:18.090 --> 00:39:23.640
Harold Davis: A good article from Primavera recently and I know it touches on some of the same

298
00:39:24.840 --> 00:39:33.750
Harold Davis: tones that that I'm going to bring up in this city, which is the importance of an authentic indigenous dialogue, but there's also some

299
00:39:34.920 --> 00:39:44.310
Harold Davis: You know, interesting things that go along with you know what we're calling it authentic indigenous dialogue, which is unique unique jurisprudence.

300
00:39:45.210 --> 00:39:59.970
Harold Davis: And autonomy that um you know there's there's a lot of nuances to understanding the differences between band councils and Canada tribal councils in the US and abroad. Probably nuances around the world in terms of

301
00:40:00.660 --> 00:40:16.140
Harold Davis: The different degrees of autonomy that different indigenous nations can have, but it's an important dialogue to kick off in when we're discussing technologies like Blockchain and which can affect you know the future of

302
00:40:18.300 --> 00:40:29.280
Harold Davis: You know blockchain based world trade or, you know, the internet alone when you talk about machine learning and IoT is going into the next iterations of industry digital fabrication and whatnot.

303
00:40:30.660 --> 00:40:36.810
Harold Davis: To have a meet up and an honest and genuine pathway for, you know,

304
00:40:39.030 --> 00:40:47.280
Harold Davis: Indigenous dialogue on their terms right there, their governance structures, not necessarily the bureaucracy that we put ourselves through and conventional Western structures but

305
00:40:48.630 --> 00:40:58.830
Harold Davis: Finding, you know, authentic governance structures of the indigenous kind and finding ways to incorporate those protocols into blockchain.

306
00:40:59.220 --> 00:41:12.840
Harold Davis: Protocols in some type of on and off chain combination would be what would be ideal, hopefully in a, you know, things like this interesting conversations like this is what this is about and what it aims to

307
00:41:15.060 --> 00:41:20.340
Harold Davis: You know address in a comprehensive way and I have, you know, indigenous

308
00:41:22.560 --> 00:41:31.530
Harold Davis: Sip and also have focus it. And also, which includes the indigenous council. There's also a CIP that references digital fabrication network.

309
00:41:32.430 --> 00:41:50.400
Harold Davis: Around the world right now that I've kind of grown out of these maker communities and a very much focused on the future of of industry and a lot of ways with, especially as the pandemic has has sped up you know in home micro factories and crazy things like this. So,

310
00:41:51.540 --> 00:41:56.850
Harold Davis: These are exciting things that I think the grant can can help make clearer as well.

311
00:41:57.630 --> 00:42:06.030
Harold Davis: That we hope focusing on education and steam and indigenous modes of production and pro assumption and things like this. But yeah, I'll stop there.

312
00:42:06.390 --> 00:42:15.360
Harold Davis: If anybody's interested, please, please join the discussion and I keep everybody updated with with the meeting today and the recording but but Thank you Jenny for the time

313
00:42:16.350 --> 00:42:17.220
Jenny: Thanks, Carol, I

314
00:42:17.340 --> 00:42:26.190
Jenny: Really be interested in in working with you on the on the steps if if only just to like understand that process better, but also because I think that

315
00:42:27.450 --> 00:42:29.250
Jenny: Our protocol could really benefit from

316
00:42:30.750 --> 00:42:35.430
Jenny: The ideas, you've mentioned, so I'll connect with you offline about it. Thank you.

317
00:42:38.730 --> 00:42:45.900
Jenny: And okay so last I we're running a little over time. So we can go over these quickly.

318
00:42:47.010 --> 00:42:50.310
Jenny: Any news on the fireside chat series or is that another

319
00:42:51.420 --> 00:42:52.650
Jenny: Backlog sort of item.

320
00:42:57.450 --> 00:43:04.470
Jason Schrader: No, no updates that I've heard so that would be more of a backlog type thing until we decide on a speaker, try to bring someone in

321
00:43:05.070 --> 00:43:05.370
Okay.

322
00:43:06.570 --> 00:43:11.010
Jenny: And and and Jason a machine you can speak to these as well as part of your work.

323
00:43:11.490 --> 00:43:16.920
Jason Schrader: Yeah, yeah. So, last two there is just the idea of sharing this tax ID or how that would look

324
00:43:17.190 --> 00:43:24.720
Jason Schrader: Which is probably something that would happen in later stages or I just like the idea of like coming back into the ecosystem and having something we could all use

325
00:43:25.350 --> 00:43:32.820
Jason Schrader: Let's say we wanted to block survey account. How do we share that among the group without sharing keys and some of those questions, but it's more of a big, big picture question.

326
00:43:33.120 --> 00:43:40.560
Jason Schrader: So I don't know if there's an easy answer to that one. And the last one around languages and translations again was just our learnings around the survey and how

327
00:43:40.800 --> 00:43:51.990
Jason Schrader: You know, communicating everything in English. We're cutting out a large part of our audience. So as we're doing things we want to make sure to support that international stance, wherever we can. And that would be the big update on those two

328
00:43:53.670 --> 00:44:10.260
Jenny: Thanks, Jason. And yeah, this is this is definitely a big picture sort of later issue to think about because I don't know. And, well, gee, maybe you can speak to this. I don't think our namespace system will change immediately posts mean at launch right

329
00:44:11.280 --> 00:44:19.650
Jude Nelson: Yeah, it will remain that largely delivery. It's backwards compatible with the current system. There's some questions unresolved right now as to whether or not

330
00:44:20.160 --> 00:44:27.600
Jude Nelson: It's possible for new spaces price curves to be updated later. And I think that that's an option, we should support as an additional feature.

331
00:44:28.650 --> 00:44:34.320
Jude Nelson: But it's important to keep in mind though that unlike the previous system, we're not inherently married

332
00:44:34.410 --> 00:44:42.690
Jude Nelson: To be an s like you can build an alternative naming system with different properties and features, depending on the problem you want to solve because now we have a full smart contract system.

333
00:44:43.890 --> 00:44:48.750
Jude Nelson: So you don't have to solve every single problem with maybe right now, we can always defer until later until we actually

334
00:44:50.910 --> 00:44:52.290
Jenny: Okay. Thanks, dude.

335
00:44:52.860 --> 00:44:58.200
Jenny: All right. Okay, so just to me, be mindful of everyone's time we've gone through action items discussion items any

336
00:44:58.260 --> 00:45:01.560
Jenny: Burning questions that we want to address before we end this call.

337
00:45:09.480 --> 00:45:10.410
Phillip Roe: So the

338
00:45:11.760 --> 00:45:16.650
Phillip Roe: Code of Conduct is going through what, what, that's what I saw that

339
00:45:18.510 --> 00:45:20.850
Phillip Roe: Look like we are going to advance in that isn't it.

340
00:45:21.930 --> 00:45:22.920
Jenny: Yeah, and

341
00:45:22.980 --> 00:45:25.950
Jenny: And Juliet is taking lead on that. So actually this is good for

342
00:45:26.040 --> 00:45:27.750
Jenny: Some reason and

343
00:45:29.370 --> 00:45:31.290
Jenny: Yeah, we got our grant application approved.

344
00:45:31.590 --> 00:45:40.200
Jenny: Last night and Juliet will be leading development of the code of conduct for the tax community inherit will be leading development of a voting mechanism for the tax community.

345
00:45:40.590 --> 00:45:47.550
Jenny: And and between now and our next meeting, which is actually fairly close to the end of Q4 2020

346
00:45:48.000 --> 00:45:54.240
Jenny: There should be progress on putting up some sort of public project management board for each project.

347
00:45:54.570 --> 00:46:03.630
Jenny: And Juliet full mentioned that she'll be getting started on that this weekend and Harold will be as well. And anyone who would like to work on either of those work streams.

348
00:46:04.110 --> 00:46:18.270
Jenny: Is welcome to you. And I think it's best to connect with either Juliet or or Harold if you are interested in either of those and and Jason also got his grant application approved to to do a bunch of cleanup of the repo, as well as

349
00:46:19.440 --> 00:46:30.090
Jenny: Consolidation of resources and updating a much more streamlined process. So we'll have a much more streamlined standard operating procedures process.

350
00:46:31.080 --> 00:46:40.770
Jenny: Or information laid out there. So thank you, Jason for that really excited to see the progress that you make there and on my end. I'm working on a

351
00:46:41.220 --> 00:46:52.020
Jenny: Discord moderation bought that I would love people to get involved in it, if you have the time yeah that's that's what was top of mind for me. I'm hoping I'm not missing anything else that we discussed

352
00:46:54.120 --> 00:46:57.990
Jenny: If I am we can we can share that in discord.

353
00:47:01.710 --> 00:47:05.220
Jenny: Alright everybody, great to chat with you all, as always.

354
00:47:07.290 --> 00:47:07.710
And yet.

355
00:47:11.850 --> 00:47:14.280
Phillip Roe: Again in the making. Thank you.

356
00:47:15.210 --> 00:47:16.350
Ryan Arndt: See you in two weeks.

357
00:47:16.830 --> 00:47:17.580
Ryan Arndt: if not sooner.

358
00:47:20.820 --> 00:47:22.050
Jason Schrader: Alright thanks everybody.

359
00:47:22.620 --> 00:47:23.790
Ryan Arndt: See you later. Yeah.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
