# 20200527 Governance Working Group Call 14

# 20200527 Governance Working Group Call 14

Lane Rettig: Okay, recording is live. 

Juliet Oberding: Awesome. Good morning. It is Wednesday, May 27 and this is the governance working group. I'm Juliet and nice to see you all. And let's get started with our stand up today. 

Juliet Oberding: So, “What's happened for everyone over the last week?” is the usual question. What are you working on. Are there any blockers and what's going to happen for you over the next week. Who'd like to get started. 

Jason Schrader: And I can start for that one. Or actually, Jenny. If you want to go. Go ahead. 

Jenny Mith: No, go ahead. Jason 

Jason Schrader: Alright, so for me I wanted to start with a quote today because I had done this in the past and it's been a while since I've done that and I found one that I thought was really relevant to today. 

Jason Schrader: So the, the quote for today is “Do not waste your time dwelling on thoughts of things that may never happen instead make things happen that you may have never thought of.” 

Jason Schrader: So I like that one that I wanted to share with the group and other than that. My main focus right now, I have got some catching up to do. I have notes from the past two calls that I want to put together. We've talked a little bit about reorganizing resources and kind of thinking through our new structure as we move forward with the website and the real foundation and all the fun things.

Jason Schrader: So I'm going to keep going down that avenue. I do not have any blockers, though. I mean, aside from me blocking myself so I'm going to work on that and get it up and other than that I am good to go. So we can go to the next person. 

Jenny Mith: Thanks for that, Jason. Yeah. So two things. And it's funny that Jason said no blockers, other than himself because that's what I was thinking about myself with the blog post. I have something drafted, it's just not very pretty. So I'm not going to share it just yet. 

Jenny Mith: I made the mistake of looking at blogs written by other communities. I was reading the intro to the governance working group blog by cosmos. And it's super comprehensive, it's really long and it made me start to think that we need to include some information that we don't have. And I think that was totally a mistake because we obviously have our own way of doing things. So as soon as I get a draft together that I do feel comfortable sharing, I can share that on GitHub and with the group. So I'm going to set a deadline for myself of Friday or Monday. I may or may not need the weekend but you should see something before the next meeting.

Jenny Mith: The other thing that I worked on last week and on Friday was I went through some of the materials that Harold has been sharing. I know he's been really excited about the possibility of us working with Fab Academy. And so we had a long call on Friday just discussing some of the possibilities and the next step for us is to just come up with a one pager to share with the group. That breaks down some of the terminology and some of the core concepts just summarizing what we're, we're thinking of doing with Fab Academy and once the group feels comfortable with everything we're thinking about there, Harold says that we would probably be ready for a meeting with [Tomasky] which I think would be really interesting for this group to take the lead on. 

Jenny Mith: So no blockers there, other than just getting that one pager out to make sure that everyone is up to speed, but if there any questions that come up, feel free to ask us. Yeah, that does it for me and I worked on a few other things as well. But we can save those for the discussion toward the end.

Lane Rettig: I can go next. Thank you both for those updates. I have to mention that there's something deeply philosophical around being your own blocker, but that's a separate rabbit hole. 

Lane Rettig: So a small thing first, which is I’ve been thinking as I was reviewing some of the work that Jason and some other folks did in GitHub just thinking a little bit about the… like, I tend to use this term a lot, but the “user experience,” right? The experience of someone like landing on some sort of governance landing page and you know that would most likely be something like stacks.gov. 

Lane Rettig: And so, obviously, you know, curious to hear Brittany’s thoughts on this as well. But, um, what sort of what do we want that experience of that journey to look like, right? What sort of material do we want them to see and what sort of call to action do we want there to be there? Just been thinking a little bit about this as we have been doing some restructuring of the documents and GitHub. No particular blockers there -  just curious what other people think. 

Lane Rettig: And then the bigger thing I've been doing is I began the process of reviewing the survey results which has been really, really interesting. I think we have a bullet point on today's agenda for that. So I'll save the details there. 

Lane Rettig: Prepared a preliminary report on that some of my own thoughts and some next steps. So yeah, again, just curious, I guess, to hear other people's thoughts and input on that. And I guess I'll keep working on it. Thanks. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I was looking around on the GitHub yesterday. So just, you know, kind of, there's so many great resources in there and I think figuring out how to best make it really easy to update those resources. Because I know there's a lot of work that's gone into making everything very organized. But how do we, you know, kind of maintain that organization, even as more people start contributing and kind of blend in and want to help out. So I think that's a really good thought process there. 

Brittany Laughlin: I've been thinking a lot about you know, there's all these various work streams that I think are related to governance and to the foundation. So just thinking about how to communicate what the roadmap potentially is and sort of saying like, these are the things that are most important immediately. These are the things you know that are coming, but they're not ready yet. So if you want to, like, jump in on them, you can. So just trying to figure out, like, what is the right medium in which to, like, express that. Because it is, you know, it is a plan, not like a Definitive Guide to like exactly what will happen. So I want people to be able to see it transparently, but also not like worry if there, if you know… If something else comes up and it's not in that plan and then it's it's excluded. It just needs to be considered separately. So we're gonna 

Juliet Oberding: Do you want to speak today? Do you have a stand up. Alright. 

Juliet Oberding: Well, I guess we will move on from the stand ups and then we'll go to the next one, with on the agenda that I'm seeing, which is the Community Survey. And that's issue number one. And Lane, are you going to be talking about that or is someone else going to present the survey with the results in the report and reaching out to respondents .

Lane Rettig: Yeah, yeah, and more than happy to. I just want to be cognizant also the fact that Jason had proposed alternative agenda format here, which I think structure is the call a little bit differently. So I totally fine if we go in this order. I just want to make sure we're all on the same page about which agenda, we're looking at .

Juliet Oberding: That's really a good point. Um, did you…, was the link on the other… on discord, Jason. 

Lane Rettig: It's the same link if you just  scroll all the way down. You'll see it. It was posted as a in line comment. Jason very kindly didn't want to overwrite the agenda, before we had talked about it. 

Jason Schrader: Yes, sorry. My goal was to create less confusion. I didn't mean to [unknown]. Thank you. Thank you for that. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay, yes. I think that's the Foundation up first, if I’m reading it right. Um, so yeah. Last week we had 

Brittany Laughlin: We announced the launch of the organization as well as the as two board members and I sort of… You know we did an introductory post at hello Stacks foundation and I wrote up just a few more thoughts in the forum around, you know how we came to this decision around these different board of directors. So, you know, sort of the key pieces were around and we needed to have three minimum board members in order to set up the organization and I will be a board member and then two board members have experienced being on boards before they serve as fiduciaries in their primary role. They are existing members of the Stacks community, they own Stacks tokens. And so we wanted to make sure to try and really check the box on how do we make sure that there's confidence that there will be financially responsible individuals helping set up the board. 

Brittany Laughlin: So that minimum board was announced, and then kind of as another piece of that was this idea of calling for other board nominations. You know, we wanted to get something active and alive [unknown] the organization but recognize that in order to do so, we actually had to move sort of quickly and kind of be very diligent about how we announced who those like initial board members were and making sure that get them signed on first. And then this idea of calling for board nominations, I think, is is really exciting, but also it's kind of a greenfield of how the execution will specifically look. So, you know, finding a way to have community input and get it collected. But then in terms of how the those nominated individuals actually get you know selected or approved by the Community is something that I think that is like a big project. And you know, I think that there's a lot of ways that we can go about that, especially looking at other research. 

Brittany Laughlin: So on the goal of that, though, was to ensure that people know that like we want good people. And if you're learning about this for the first time and you would like to contribute, there's like a place to go and do that. And then over the next probably, I'm assuming, like 1-3 months like really trying to actively come up with a process and then also getting board members added. So whether that's one board member, whether that's three and there's flexibility in that, but I think it's just like making sure that it's representative of the different things that aren't currently on the board that we want to be on board. 

Brittany Laughlin: So that’s what's top of mind for me. So I think with this group, you know, thinking about board nominations, is this something we discuss in GitHub? Is this for you know like writing it up on the forum? Is it just conversational on discord? Kind of like how to get input on this process, so that we can kind of move it along and move it forward and feel like there's a lot of people who have collaborated versus just saying, “Hey, here's how we're going to do it. And we're going to go ahead and do it.”

Jason Schrader: I'm curious with the forum posts that you have up already, and with the block survey, have you gotten any responses - just like a total count. You don't have to share any other info, but are you getting a little bit of response there. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I haven't checked. Let me just double check again this morning, but I had like three responses so far, but I will [unknown]

Phillip Roe: Well, good morning. Sorry for about being late. 

Phillip Roe: I think that the announcement that of the launch of the Foundation with very important because that brings me to do math related materiality of 

Phillip Roe: concrete action that we need that board [unknown]. So, as you said, probably the generative movement of you know, people, you know, knowing what we need and all that. That would be wonderful opportunity to participation. 

Phillip Roe: Especially if we announced that and then so that we bring the people you know to get know the foundation that we need are all that that will be a good excuse in order to present the foundation and make it the more massive decision. So it's been, I think that is a wonderful opportunity to do to let them know the what we're doing. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay. 

Brittany Laughlin: Just confirming, we do have three nominations from folks. 

Juliet Oberding: Go ahead, Phillip 

Phillip Roe: Board members that is already nominated are two men, no?

Brittany Laughlin: Yes. Yeah, all the nominees are men so far too. So I think we can think we can do better than that. 

Juliet Oberding: Have you thought about the process yet about... I know that that's up for discussion with whether we're going to discuss in GitHub, or the forum, or discord, but have you thought about would it be more traditional where the nominated person provides some sort of bio and there's an interview or anything like that. Or we come up with our own Nomination… going through the process for the person.

Lane Rettig: We need an ordeal. You need to tell the person to go steal fire.  

Brittany Laughlin: A quest. I love that. Yeah, yeah I think you know the default thinking: it's like, okay um, you know, is this person you know, a legitimate person. Are they a good fit. Do they meet someone like the values criteria which I would imagine is through an interview. 

Brittany Laughlin: Whether that interview was recorded and shared with the community or if it's you know there's someone from the community also on that. As part of that like that could be a way to bring it in, but I think… Yeah, definitely doing sort of the diligence that you would want to make sure that this person is capable, has the time to do it, and then also meets all of the values. 

Brittany Laughlin: I think in terms of what happens if there's multiple people that seem like a great fit and we have limited capacity and is, you know, I - like I'm looking at what other folks have done and I think you know some of the thing is, like, “Well, why don't we vote the people in who should be in?” The challenge with that is that if you don't have enough people voting, then it becomes about getting enough votes to even make it credible. 

Brittany Laughlin: And so the flip side of that is, I think, like Z-caches nominations. What they do is they do like an approval process. So, you know, people can approve or disapprove of people and that kind of gives signal if there's like some concerns and those can then be addressed. But it's not like you have to vote to get in. It's more like flagging if there's there's issues. Once you've kind of come to a select few who you think would be the right fit. 

Brittany Laughlin: So I think like that and process of you know, if we have too many people - what do we do then? But I think the initial process is just validating that these are quality people that we would want. And you know personally like I will be working with them. So I want to make sure that you know there are people that are are really going to represent and show up and do the work that we want them to and then in the community and in the board. 

Lane Rettig: There's so many interesting pieces to this conversation about, you know, where those people might be and how to find them and the whole process like you're describing. I just wanted to (and I think it is definitely a longer conversation), but I wanted to add one thought which is: Brittany, you had mentioned maybe on the forum the possibility of there being… we talked about this before as well, of course, like a possibility of there being like a community representative, so to speak on the board. I think that's a wonderful idea and I think, of course would love to see that happen. And I think that that is maybe something that that we as a group here could discuss in slightly more concrete terms like how we might put forth such a nomination, so to speak. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah. Yeah, so I like the idea of a community chair and so like, you know, for example, the teases Foundation has like a community chair on their board. And and that means that the attendee to the board meeting, maybe different each time, but they are representing the community so it's their responsibility to kind of solicit feedback from the community sort of provide a the research around like the sentiment, the different issues that are concerns to the community.  And then represent that like those various interests at the board meeting. 

Brittany Laughlin: So what they have found is that because they have a lot of, you know, sub groups that kind of are focused on different things - whether it's like about their economics or consensus or just, you know, community developer outreach - that they get to cycle and kind of represent in different ways. So I think that that's really interesting because it doesn't limit it to a single person having to represent everyone. It's saying that like you know the person who attends is going to have to do all this, a lot of legwork actually, in order to be a good representative, but everything will be heard at the board level. So I think that's like really interesting. I don't know what you guys think about that but I was, I thought that that was pretty cool. 

Phillip Roe: I believe that…, sorry. 

Lane Rettig: Please. Phillip 

Phillip Roe: Just essentially what I seen, you know, as a good way of governance is is at least another board member has to be members of the community. 

Phillip Roe: As a [unknown], doesn't matter, you know what they do but they had to be members of our community in general. I mean, because if done not committed to, to the the purpose of the of the institution or the, what we want to achieve is will be a break down there in the future for near future, whatever, whatever happens, you know, we had to maintain unity in what we are doing. So in that sense, has to be a member of the community - participation and all that.

Phillip Roe: Then candidates, this is complicated. You can nominate but candidate is always difficult because you know ego comes in and sometimes ego is not something that is very health healthy for institutions. 

Lane Rettig: I agree 110% on Phillips last point. That's, that's a big thing. And that's something that we should bear in mind as we consider the right person or people for this role.

Lane Rettig: I just wanted to add two quick thoughts to what Brittany said. To based on, not surprisingly, the things I've seen and experienced in theory and being a person who was kind of a little bit in this role for a while. I sort of a liaison between the Community and the Ethereum foundation.

Lane Rettig: The first thought is that it's very hard. It's a lot of work to follow all those channels, right? To kind of keep a pulse on what's going on in the community. It involves, in practice, things like attending a lot of events and being active on Twitter and being active on Reddit and putting up with a lot of trolls, and just making oneself available. So, um, it. Yeah, it's a lot of work. So people should be aware of that. 

Lane Rettig: And the second is, there is one de facto person, one person in this de facto role in Etherium: Hudson Jamison, if if you follow Etherium at all. And and that's not great either. He's a, he's a wonderful person who works very hard, but as a result of there being a single person in that role. You know, he… to put it bluntly, like comes under attack, a lot. A lot of people in the community feel that, for whatever reason, their interests are not being represented. And it's not Hudson's fault or, you know, they're “trolls will be trolls,” that kind of thing. And so I guess what I'm suggesting is actually, if it is like, Brittany, you spoke a moment ago about [unknown]. If it's more of a rotating thing, I could see that relieving some of that burden upon a single person. So I just want to share that as well. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think that's a great point. Like, I think… Unfortunately, there's no simple solution. Like there is going to be a lot of work, especially representing the whole community. And you know it's why the board represents the, you know, organizing of the foundation and you know making like financial related decisions to how like money gets allocated within the organization. So like salaries and things like that. 

Brittany Laughlin: But it will not be in control of like the technical committee. And I think the way that grants get issued also… You know, the board can have input maybe on the process, but they won't control who's getting money where. So it's just trying to spread out more of these different functions to a lot of people who can then like specialize and really understand the complexities of those things. And I think that's why it's important to have a board that has very broad knowledge that can weigh in. 

Brittany Laughlin: But for experts in specifics. We want to be able to have spots that people can can contribute. And those those roles won't be like capped. Like, it won't be like, “Only five technical people - no more ever will be on this committee.” It's like, it can be a little more fluid I think. So, that's where the current like mindset is that. 

Lane Rettig: I think that's great. Yeah, I mean you'll see in the SIP process proposal that has been refined a bit now and got some feedback from Jude and some other folks that we have the idea of. I think we sort of settled on working groups as terminology for it. But yeah, but different groups of experts and let's call it… What's it called in the UK.? Devolvement of like aspects of governance to like local groups. I think it's a great idea. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, and of course Jude is moving up to the Foundation, which is great. So he's gonna be helping you know like run the technical group in [unknown]. He's very excited and  does a lot of work in our forums. So if you haven't interacted with yet it's, he’s pretty active. 

Jason Schrader: Yeah, it was really cool, actually, to watch that developer call the other day. I think it was yesterday. 

Jason Schrader: And I just wanted to chime in and say, I'm on the same page with that, you know. I really liked the idea of separation of powers and I like the idea of like having the different segments so that we get even representation across the board. 

Jason Schrader: So there's definitely a lot of potential there and to the, to the point you made earlier. I think there's definitely some room for the same way we had a Community research observer. 

Jason Schrader: To look at something like that, throughout the interview process just to keep the community involved with someone for that too. So everything sounding good over here. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay. Um, yeah, I think that's it for the update for the Foundation. 

Brittany Laughlin: So I see on our next like on the agenda, it's moving into action items - kicking off with community service. So I can hand that over.

Lane Rettig: That works for me. If it works for Julia and everyone else. Are we good to move on to the next topic. 

Juliet Oberding: I think that not hearing anything, anything else from any from other participants, we've had a great discussion on the board nominations and different ways of approaching the community. I loved everything that was discussed and really excited about the what Brittany raised about the [unknown]. So I, uh,  Foundation really excited about seeing what we can do here, and I wonder just before we move on, are there any action items, Britney, that we'd like to put on our list for next week to discuss?

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so I think this you know idea of like nominations is something that I would love to have as kind of an action item this week. Is maybe to talk through different ideas or different research and if you are interested in kind of being more involved in like that aspect, maybe we can set up like separate time to to go deeper on that. So… 

Juliet Oberding: Yeah, I think that sounds fantastic. I would love to help out. If you're talking to me personally. 

Brittany Laughlin: I would love to have you help. Yeah. 

Juliet Oberding: But so that sounds good for the action items and and so I think we can then now move on to the next point. And Lane, were you going to handle that with the Community Survey? 

Lane Rettig: Yeah, let me start by dropping a couple of links here into the into the zoom call. So folks can kind of follow along. Can bear with me for just a sec while I find them. 

Lane Rettig: Okay, so the first thing I'm going to share is directly out of type form. It is a report. I guess itself speaks for itself. So there's the link for that. That link should work for everyone. Let me know if it doesn't. 

Lane Rettig: And the second thing I'm going to share is something I wrote. So these are kind of some of my thoughts. This is sort of a preliminary report that I wrote about the survey. I and there's there's a spreadsheet, but I'm not sure that that needs to be shared in this forum right now. It contains exactly the same thing as the first link, but just for our raw data format. 

Lane Rettig: So let's see. So, yeah. So just as a recap. I missed last week's call obviously, but we kind of had consensus two weeks ago that we should move forward with doing some analysis of the survey results and closing the survey to new responses. That's something we should make a final call on this call, by the way. And if we do have consensus on closing off the survey to new responses, I'll do that today. 

Lane Rettig: Yeah, so we had 58 responses when I began this analysis about a week ago and funnily enough after three weeks of no responses we got a couple more in the past week. So I wonder where that came from, but… So that's - we’re at about 60. 

Lane Rettig: Maybe what I can do is just take about five minutes to very quickly walk through some of the, let's call them “high level insights.” So if you click on the second link, if you haven't already, that Google Docs link. If you want to. You don't have to. I can just speak to these things, but I'm just quickly walk through a few interesting points. 

Lane Rettig: So we had 23 countries responding, which I think is pretty amazing and really speaks to how international this community is. But it was a very long tail of responses we had a lot from the United States and a lot from Chile, which again I think speaks to Philips’ hard work. 

Phillip Roe: How important is Chile. Never, never knew that 

Phillip Roe: There you go. 

Phillip Roe: For Brittany… 

Phillip Roe: Well, it's a commitment of the people were about probably you know it's well yeah 

Lane Rettig: I was just gonna say…

Phillip Roe: I'm surprised. 

Phillip Roe: Well, my team will answer, but my team is not so cute. So… It's five people, six people but 

Lane Rettig: I think we had something like 14 responses, something like that from Chile. So it was 13 responses, pretty big number. I was just saying, Brittany, I think we can barely make out Chile on the map behind you there on your left, so we can celebrate.

Lane Rettig: Cool. Yeah, and then a very long tail. A lot of countries. I said there were there were… How many? 23 total. So a lot of ones and twos, which is kind of cool. Vast majority of responders, around 90%, are not in paid Roles that people who are kind of hobbyists are still learning, which I think is interesting. An interesting insight. 

Lane Rettig: Many of you will have noticed, 92% of the people who responded who are part of a project said that their projects are self-funded. Not, not necessarily exclusively self funded, but at least partially self funded. 92%. It's a very high number. I thought that was very interesting. And to me, that kind of suggests that there's a lot of potential here for doing things with app mining and grants potentially. 

Lane Rettig: Most people who responded indicated that they want to get involved in governance and like one thing that jumped out at me was, they want to get involved in things like reviewing SIPs, which is interesting because that's a difficult thing to do. It's a highly technical thing. 

Lane Rettig: 70% of respondents suggested they have a lack of understanding either about block stack or about its governance, or both. So I think that that also suggests that we have our work cut out for us, but it's a high potential group of people. Who might be excited and getting more involved in governance. 

Lane Rettig: About half prefer plutocracy. Which is to say, sort of token voting over all other forms of governance, I found that very interesting. We could, that's a rabbit hole we could explore. 

Lane Rettig: Most - so the average level of understanding about… There's, okay, there's a whole bucket of things here around PBC, which we can come back to. And I'm definitely curious to hear Jenny and Brittany's impression of some of these things, but like one example of this is that the understanding of the mission of PBC was relatively low. It was about a three out of six, which kind of surprised me. That's kind of a moderate degree of understanding. And there were other aspects here about transparency and the role that folks think that PBC should have relative to the Foundation. 

Lane Rettig: And then the last thing I'll highlight right now is that 58% supported a form of tax or ecosystem fund to fund the Foundation and its work, which is what Zcash is doing. And so that's that's really interesting. That really surprised me because that's the kind of thing like no one in Etherium supports. J4ust just just one point of comparison. 

Lane Rettig: So I'll stop with the insights there. There's a lot more in the documents that I shared. I guess what I would say is that - I don't know, help me out. Let me know what you all think next steps are here. There's more I intend to add in that document, the middle section, things to consider. I tried to go back and cross reference the initial set of questions I had posted on the forum when we kicked off the survey. 

Lane Rettig: And so I want to try to respond to some of these questions and I could use everyone's help you know with that as well. Um, and, and yeah, the results, I think this the the report I just shared here can be shared publicly, as far as I'm concerned. I don't… It doesn't contain any sensitive information. 

Lane Rettig: I think we should share the raw results in the spreadsheet format as well. Well, you know I've already removed the sensitive information like email address from that. And leave it open to other folks to do their own analysis. That's that's kind of where I'm at. I guess that the biggest question is, do people think we should end… close the survey to new responses. Or or let me rephrase the question. Does anyone think we should not close the survey to new responses? 

Phillip Roe: I think that if we do just another effort, you know, as, as we launch the Foundation is that there's still some time to fill out the survey. So, then maybe you can get two or five more. And so that also will will , I don’t know. Around then because of numbers, you know, it would be better because you will you suggested hundred but… Of course, it will be difficult to get that. But that is, you know, we have another another effort in order to because of the Foundation. This is a good excuse to call for attention. 

Jason Schrader: I had two thoughts regarding the survey. One, I think the uptick that you saw recently is that the survey was again featured in This Week in BlockStack, so I think that was where probably those few extra responses came from. But given that we are trickling down to just getting a few at a time, I almost feel like it's better to close this, learn what we can from it, and then maybe approach it a new way. If we wanted to learn new information, mainly because of that completion time. You know, to see people going about 35 30% completion rate 43 minutes average time to do it. That's, that's some pretty high numbers. 

Jason Schrader: So I'd like to see some improvement there, but otherwise I'm I'm open to it and then looking at the responses to, you know, we talked about having, towards the bottom, thoughts and analysis. He said, You know, we have a whole ton 300,000 Stacks token holders, but we did not reach a whole ton of them too. So I think that's an interesting question that we can look at and maybe find a better approach for. 

Jason Schrader: Agree, agree. 

Lane Rettig: Thanks, Jason. Yeah. Um, I guess I'm agreeing with you. I think that like additional surveys’ fact finding is always a good idea, but I think we can be a lot more targeted in the future. I think we can isolate the specific things we want to learn about. Like this is a great starting point. We have a lot of fantastic raw material here. But I think we could do more frequent shorter kind of five minute type surveys. Maybe we could think about that and the marketing gears in my head, returning. I'm not really very good at marketing, but maybe folks who have more experience with with it, customer analytics type stuff. We could do some of that. 

Lane Rettig: And um yeah, we… The reaching out to the Stax token holders is something that we had originally discussed when we were launching this. Doing things like random sampling or something. I think there's a lot of potential there going forward. 

Phillip Roe: What… From what I see in the resources. It's… we can do a lot of things with this. It's wonderful material. Congratulations. 

Phillip Roe: Yeah, we can do [unknown]. We can…, there's so many things to do. So congratulations. This is a wonderful way to start. 

Lane Rettig: Thank you for sharing that Philip. I I agree. I think everyone, you know, here as well as other people worked really hard to make this happen. And I'm really, really pleased with the results. I think that there's a lot of insights here - a lot that can be learned and garnered from these results. 

Lane Rettig: And I think it's a great sort of very concrete initiative that this group can point to, as you know, this is the thing we did and it has a concrete impact and as a concrete you know report or something that we're publishing here. I think we should definitely write one or multiple blog posts about this. I'll defer to Jenny on the timing there, but I think that could be quite interesting as well. There are definitely some interesting, unexpected insights here. 

Lane Rettig: Also, I think the next BlockStack summit whenever we're ready to have another one in person should be in Chile, I just want to throw that out there. 

Juliet Oberding: So in following up on on that, I agree with… Excuse me. I agree with Jason's proposal regarding taking a look - closing this down. Taking a look at the results we got. And then also following up on Lane’s proposal about the the writing the blog posts and perhaps… Jenny, do you have any, anything you can add to that right now before we wrap this particular item up 

Jenny Mith: Nothing immediately comes to mind. I think that just sharing the insights themselves is pretty important. But I do think that in order to get good feedback, we should include some thoughtful insights first. But I'll have to think about the best way to format it I think just showing the number of responses is impressive in and of itself. So I can follow up with an issue and get help. 

Juliet Oberding: Thanks, Jenny. So unless anyone else has a burning question or something. They need to add, I'm going to move on to the next action item, and that is the governance landing page if I'm on the right agenda. 

Lane Rettig: Sorry, just just closing the loop here. So I am going to go ahead and close the survey to new responses. Phillip, your, your point is noted, and I think we can definitely discuss how to do additional surveys going forward. But this this is… sorry, this is just an important action item that I think we need to reach a consensus on. Is everyone okay with that. 

Juliet Oberding: Yes, for me. 

Lane Rettig: Thank you so much. 

Jason Schrader: Yes. For me as well. 

Lane Rettig: And right so landing pages is next. Um, do you want to speak to that Jason or anyone else? I'm happy to try to, but go ahead if you want to. 

Jason Schrader: Sure. So one thing we've done is we've compiled a ton of resources. You know, when all of this started we were all asking some very broad level questions of what is governance, what do we want to model ourselves after. And we have a ton of links sitting in the resources repo and while we sort of restructured that to make it a little easier to consume. There's definitely a lot more that can be done. So this idea is issue number 45 in the project management repository. And we talked about just having some kind of landing page or way for people to easily, to have an easier way to digest a lot of these resources. 

Jason Schrader: And there's also an issue, I believe, it’s number 33 and here as well where I've been collecting resources from discord and other outlets to add in addition to what we have. And I felt the same kind of thing: we need a better level of organization. So I think that now that we have the Foundation, now that we have stacks.org, there's definitely some potential to use that as a tool to direct people to information faster. 

Jason Schrader: My recommendation is: always thinking of the verbs. You know, if somebody wants to do A, B, or C. They have a quick way to say, oh, boom, I land on the right page. I see a list of resources, I can read what I want 

Jason Schrader: Another idea I had that I proposed in… what I think issue 33, was to sort of summarize some of the articles or find a way to highlight the key content that we liked from each one so it's more than just a link to a gigantic document, and gives people kind of a high level view that they could dig further into. But obviously, that takes a lot more time and work as well. So that's something that we'll have to look at as a group and everything like that. 

Jason Schrader: But I think the the other big thing that I saw that really is a call to action on this landing page was in the survey results. If we look at, it was there in the type form link, if we look at how people are interacting with and learning information, GitHub was down kind of like number six or seven on that list. And rather than trying to force people into GitHub, I just want to make it a better relationship between the two. And I think there's definitely some room to do that with a landing page as the main engine. So that's the, that's the high level kind of summary of the issue that I could give for everyone here and I'm curious what others think, for sure. 

Phillip Roe: Yes, it's, I think that the to share information is quite challenging and and then the the website is always something that the people feel like it's more official, but then how you, how you interact, how the network grows and also different opinions, you know, comes up in a different way, but it's not official. But it's it's part of the community so It's something that we still have to think about how to integrate all that stuff. We are not the only ones that have that problem, so. 

Juliet Oberding: Yeah, Jason I I agree with your, your points about having a friendly place where people can land that they can easily find those resources. I think the GitHub is actually pretty fantastic. But I think there could be another landing page as you're calling it where they can, you know, find those things easily. I particularly love the idea of having summaries of some of the key articles so people don't have to... They get the, you know the high level, the gist of it. So those are some of my thoughts. Does anyone else have some some thoughts about this, and perhaps some action items that we can put forth for the next meeting. 

Lane Rettig: I agree with everything that's been shared. I just wanted to very, very briefly jump in and share my motivation for this. I think that like governance is hard because it's very intimidating to a lot of people. Even just the word governance, you know, they hear it and they cringe. And they kind of… What they're visualizing is not fun or exciting. And I think to some extent you saw that in the survey results as well – where, where folks said that they, you know, felt that they didn't have enough understanding of governance or BlockStacks governance. So I guess my motivation is like, think of it in product terms: “How do we make into into something that is approachable to people, and legible to people, and make sense, and it feels like something they want to get involved in and you know, landing page is a powerful tool if it's well organized and people can you know immediately feel that they have access to the resources they need and the call to action is clear. That that's my motivation. 

Juliet Oberding: So when you when you bring that up, that makes me think of having customer interviews and really understanding what the users’ needs are and and do we have an understanding, do… Has the survey given us an understanding of what are… What the users needs are with respect to a landing page? And and what what problems are they finding from GitHub, because we saw one point that that you mentioned was that they… or Jason mentioned was that that was not the first place they thought of going. So maybe there's room for a mini mini survey on this or maybe there's some room for talking with community on this. What are anyone else's thoughts about finding out, from a user-centered approach, you know how we should structure a landing page? Or am I making it way too complicated?

Lane Rettig: Um, something that I had meant to share as part of the survey results... I think this is a good time to share it and discuss this with some of you, right. Is that we have something… Most people who filled out the survey gave us an email address. So we have something like 30, 40, 50 email addresses of people who were motivated enough to fill out the survey, are clearly interested in governance. But obviously, most of them have not been active so far because we've only had about 10 people active. 

Lane Rettig: So that's a great group of potential user. We have their contact info, we should do something with it. Maybe we should try speaking to them. I'll leave that as an open question like what we should do with that. But that's one potential answer to your question, Julia. 

Jenny Mith: Yeah, I would agree with Lane on that. And I also wanted to share that we've had some success with these user interviews with the dev X team and in… It's not like like they're large groups or anything, but it's super insightful to chat to have 15 minutes with someone in the community to talk over whether the Explorer is accessible, whether it looks good. You know what changes we can make. And I think as the governance group, especially for BlockStack, a good habit that we can get into is just testing things that we want to try. Obviously, we're always going to face the the obstacle or challenge of of not having participation or enough participation and we're always going to want more folks to join. But I do think that, um, the more that we do that, and the more that we engage, especially with that list of survey respondents that Lane has mentioned, and the more participation we will get over time. And so if we have ideas for landing page or if we have even an outline that we want to run by someone and it wouldn't hurt to have like a five minute interview, and to get into that habit and to be really public about that too and say, you know, we had interviews with five people last week, who said that they wanted to do this and you know if there's no there no objections, we're, we're going to experiment with with doing that. 

Jenny Mith: Does anyone else have objections, at this point? And I know I talked to a lot of you about this, but folks don't really have strong opinions until it seems like something is going to be decided, and then they start chiming in. So I think that's a great way to get started and get people motivated to give their input. 

Jason Schrader: Definitely and and on that line of thinking, I think. One of the best things we can do is just leave room for that input, right? Because if we offer people the chance to at least voice those opinions and they weren't voiced throughout the process, or not until the end, it gives us a better picture. 

Jason Schrader: And the other thing I wanted to share. I mentioned that type form result. So the primary read… What are your primary resources for learning about the BlockStack platform and community really came back down to discord, the BlockStack blog, the BlockStack forum, and technical articles. So I think there's definitely some room there to make sure we're using our outlets as efficiently as possible. So, you know, being able to have a central landing page on stacks.org would be excellent in my opinion. And I think we just didn't have that ability before, right, like the stacks of organization on GitHub was designed to be a little bit of that independent house for information from BlockStack. And now we have the Foundation that can do the same. So I think it's just pieces that are coming together now. 

Phillip Roe: I agree on that and that essentially that the reality of the of the informations been very spread out and so do… yes to make an effort to summarize and put things together on that, it will be difficult. The, the reality is, is we have to look for ways of like an index of of information or pointers. Because right now, for example, my personal challenges, I have five or six different consoles in order to to have different subjects in this console and then have a way to concentrate because there's so much information. In. So then in each aspect, you know, governance has console, and then the starting in [unknown] has another one and and and then my my project has another one. My email has another one. And then the discord has another one because you know this code has pointers to do different things. So, in the sense of, that's the reality of what we are facing, but not only we are the BlockStacks community is is every, every aspect of our life. 

Phillip Roe: Yeah, having that. But especially because we are in quarantine. So you know how we organize on that something that we can come up with something that will will be a good example then with this information, we can try to to reorganize so they want you to make it easier for everybody to to interact and have feedback on all that. 

Phillip Roe: I want to also separate their official…  Because their official is something that will always have to be. Like Britanny. Brittany speaks official… But then, then all the opinions, you know, our opinions, but we have to be clear that they’re opinions, you see. And so how you you you you encourage opinions in and then don't mix it to the official decision of the organization or the board or whatever it comes up. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I definitely echo your point. Of just… there's a lot of places. And they all have different kind of purposes and, you know, GitHub feels a little more formal than discord and you know the forum is more conversational, and so yeah I I agree with you. I don't know if there's a solution, but I think trying to be mindful of that when we're making sort of decisions on where to put information or where they have these conversations, is spot on. 

Lane Rettig: I have a concrete proposal for concrete next steps that, again circling back to what Julian had said. And again, I'm broken record here, but this is something that worked well in Etherium. That there was a Etherium.org website that for a long time was run by the Ethereum Foundation with basically no community input and that annoyed people a lot because they felt that that should be a community property. 

Lane Rettig: And eventually, it changed about a year, year and a half ago. It's now a community page and there is a GitHub repository that anyone can submit a pull request or an issue to. And so we're, you know, as a group, we've become pretty comfortable pretty familiar with GitHub. So I'm going to propose, and I guess this the ball would be in Brittany's court here, but that there'd be something like a stack.gov/governance page that would be linked to a GitHub repository that anyone in the community, could as I said not not not merge into, but could submit a pull request or an issue too, and that some small number of people have merge access to and those changes would basically go live immediately on a governa… On a sort of official governance landing page. So just as a concrete project. 

Brittany Laughlin: Okay. Yeah, I think that's a great idea. 

Lane Rettig: I think as wonderful as our GitHub repository and PM repositories are… Sorry, resources repository PM, etc.-  a web page will always be more accessible to more people than a GitHub repository or reading a markdown file will be so.

Phillip Roe: Jason have done a very good job and compiling and linking all the resources, so that's that's very valuable. And you know, that's a lot of work. But that can be migrated to any place anyways. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I see a couple people have to jump here, so I know no one wanted to interrupt I actually have to jump to you. And was there any, any last things we needed to cover last minute here?

Lane Rettig: The last agenda item is the SIP process proposal. Yeah, we have, like, a minute or two. I don't know if we want to discuss that now or wait till the next call. 

Jason Schrader: I guess the biggest question is, do you have a main ask for us. Aside from continuing to review the document or is there any other direct action item we can handle really quick. Otherwise, we could probably delay it till next week. 

Lane Rettig: I'm going to pass the ball to Brittany here because I think it's in the Foundation's wheelhouse, like what the next steps are with respect to SIP proposal. Brittany is that something that's on the table now, or is that one of the Q3 things you'd mentioned? 

Brittany Laughlin: Um, so the… It Is like editing it and making sure that it exists. So the SIP proposal is very important for Stacks 2.0 to actually launch and to get accepted by miners. And so, internally there's been engineers who've weighed in on the process, including Jude who has been very vocal. Jude is going to kind of, you know, shepherd, a little more of that process. And so I think what we'll end up with, or just I actually was just pinging him this morning about, you know, where will that live? Like is it a GitHub. You know, like final draft or, you know, sort of working draft that that those new additional comments get included in and we can publish it there. And or is it still, you know, are there things he wants to discuss in the forum first before kind of moving into like the GitHub land. So yeah, my action item is just to take away and hopefully Jude can give an update on either next week's call or just a written update and discord channel. 

Brittany Laughlin: All right, right at Pacific time right at 8am, so perfectly on time. 

Jason Schrader: Perfect, yeah, so that that takes care of all of our action items. Just for the idea of being consistent. I'm going to go ahead and list off all the open discussion items but a big thank you to everyone who was able to make it. I know a few people have to jump but we appreciate everybody being here. 

Jason Schrader: So some of the items that we carry over from last week include the… 

Lane Rettig: I'm sorry to interrupt. I think this is my mistake. I feel like we missed the blog post action item, and I think Jenny had to run. So maybe that also needs to go on this list here at the end of the call things to discuss next week. Sorry about the interruption. I just want to make sure we don't miss that. 

Jason Schrader: Sure. Definitely. And I know, you know we spoke to it a little bit in the stand up so we did get a little bit of information on the on the blog post update. I think our biggest takeaway from this meeting this week is that she's working heavy rough draft for us by either Friday or Monday. 

Jason Schrader: So what I mean, I think, really, we just need to get the first one out and we’ll feel a lot better. But it's, of course, the first one is the hardest one as well. So as we're going through that, we’ll be looking for a way to provide feedback and get it on that one. The issue as far as the agenda is concerned with the blog post: We did try to link in some of the older topics as well, like we had issue number 11 was a list of questions about the Foundation from call number three. 

Jason Schrader: And looking way way back then, we've actually answered a lot of these questions and I think they generated some fun discussion. So that's why that one was on the list. And then number 43, that's listed there as well. Was deciding on the first two to three topics for the series. 

Jason Schrader: So that's where we'll see what the first draft entailed, but during last week's call we reached a general consensus that those two to three topics were a good place to start. So I think we're pretty well set on that, but it will definitely carry over into the next week. And I'll leave it open for a second. In case anybody had any thoughts on that. 

Jason Schrader: Alright. So the open discussion items. I feel like you know, with our small group today and being that we ran up to, to our time limit now, I don't think we're going to get really deep into these. But I did want to mention them since they're on the agenda. So I'm just going to rattle off each one. Once I'm done rattling them all off, if we do have any comments or anything people want to include now we can do so. Otherwise, I think we'll just kind of work towards the end of this week's call. 

Jason Schrader: So the open discussion items I have on the list: We talked about the Community research observer role from issue number 17 and we're kind of out of that research phase, but we wanted to keep the idea open and keep it in mind as we're going through the SIP process or anything else towards making this an official thing. And I think there's definitely some room to tie that into the thought of the proposed board members or, you know, doing some sort of community involvement for that selection as well. 

Jason Schrader: So I can see those things tying together. The code of conduct was one that we talked about a little ways back and I think that is also in the works. So the code of conduct was in the proposals repository for issue number 11.

Jason Schrader: Then we had another topic on languages and translation which is mainly just keeping our awareness that, as we work with an international community, we want to try and provide content in as many formats as possible so that we can have as much involvement as possible. 

Lane Rettig: We have a sense from a survey now what languages at least a subset of the Community speaks and we know that we need more stuff in Spanish. 

Jason Schrader: Yeah, definitely. And big thank you to Phillip too. I mean, I was shocked as well to see Chile really throw throw up some big numbers up there, and come through. And we know that that effort comes a lot from what you've done and promoted out there so excellent job with that as well. 

Jason Schrader: And then the last two items: we had the shared resources, issue number 33 and this was talking about as we form the foundation, we want to share a zoom account, we want to figure out the best way to share YouTube, and also looking at if we can share BlockStack resources as well. So sort of some open questions there, but definitely feel free to comment as on the issue as we're going through. 

Jason Schrader: And then finally, just looking at the founding documents again, which touches a little bit on that code of conduct idea. And that was in proposals issue number nine. So those are some of our open discussion items that will roll over to next week. If we have any final comments on those please feel free to share. Otherwise, I'll give it a minute or so and then we'll look at closing out the call for today. 

Lane Rettig: Super quick question to Brittany: We had talked about doing like like micro grants early on from the Foundation to cover some things like shared resources. Any thoughts on on that? On how long that process may take?

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think that we can do that. I think, like with things like zoom and either some paid accounts and those are, I think, in the short term, probably fastest is for me to to set up Foundation accounts for those and then be able to pay for them through the Foundation's… almost as like a business expense. I think the issuing of like micro-grants is something that we… I want to have sort of a process for and it may actually get more complicated if it's under like $100 or something like that because of reimbursement and tax and 1099s and things like that. So I think the immediate solution is probably Foundation setup administration and then… Yeah. But if there's things that are kind of larger than that, that amount or don't make sense for that, then that's where I think we can kind of propose them and then figure out what the best way forward is from. 

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah,  and I think I think I have this in channels with Jason and Lane, because I know you guys have some ownership rights in like GitHub and YouTube. So if you would be open to adding me with my Stacks Foundation email so brittany@saks.org, that would be great. 

Lane Rettig: Is that a is that a Google linked account. Can I add that directly to YouTube.

Brittany Laughlin: It is.

Lane Rettig:  Okay, great. Thanks. 

Jason Schrader: Alright. Well, on that note, I think we're going to be ending today's call. So just a quick update: Next week's call will be on June 3. We're actually going to be in June here right around the corner and that's crazy to me, but that's all right. And thank you again for everybody being here. I appreciate everybody and the thoughts. Definitely look to GitHub for issues, resources, places to comment. And if there's any other feedback, you know, we're always listening. We have our channel in discord as well. So thank you everybody. Especially those who watch the recording after the fact and have a great week. Thanks. 

Lane Rettig: Thanks. Have a good week. Take care. Bye bye.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
