# 20201022 Governance Working Group Call 26

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:01.230 --> 00:00:12.509
Jenny Mith: Alright, hey everybody, and welcome to the governance group call number 26 today's October 22 2020 and it's just after

2
00:00:13.019 --> 00:00:23.730
Jenny Mith: noon eastern time and I'm joined today by a few folks. Good to see everybody. It's been a while. And. And just a reminder we are

3
00:00:24.210 --> 00:00:33.120
Jenny Mith: Where we have shifted to this semi monthly bi weekly schedule. So these were previously weekly calls we now do them every two weeks.

4
00:00:33.900 --> 00:00:41.250
Jenny Mith: And in a previous call we talked about that being a more productive way to do our work individually individually and asynchronously.

5
00:00:41.850 --> 00:00:57.600
Jenny Mith: And so this working group call won't have the format won't have changed much from what we've normally done, but I know that Jason and Juliet have done a lot of work to streamline the way that we run these meetings as well so that

6
00:00:58.170 --> 00:01:11.520
Jenny Mith: We can get done, get more done asynchronously and independently and then use these calls as a place to discuss and have stand ups and go over any new issues that we might want to tackle that sound good to everybody.

7
00:01:14.430 --> 00:01:16.980
Jenny Mith: I can't actually see the chat right now.

8
00:01:18.060 --> 00:01:21.570
Jenny Mith: You guys can verbally confirm that hopeful hopeful.

9
00:01:22.110 --> 00:01:22.710
Juliet Oberding: Sounds great.

10
00:01:25.590 --> 00:01:33.450
Jenny Mith: Right. So one of the, the first thing that so Juliet Jason and I got on a call yesterday, just to go over some unresolved operational things

11
00:01:33.810 --> 00:01:42.930
Jenny Mith: With these meetings and one of the ideas that really it had that it's really good was to just bank some time at the very beginning to go over recent progress.

12
00:01:43.260 --> 00:01:50.130
Jenny Mith: Because we know it's kind of daunting to haven't really watched every single meeting recording or to even go over the notes.

13
00:01:50.400 --> 00:01:58.140
Jenny Mith: everyone's busy so it helps just to save a couple of minutes to do those progress updates and we will have stand ups as well but

14
00:01:58.980 --> 00:02:04.680
Jenny Mith: From my perspective, we spent the last few calls having pretty lengthy discussions about

15
00:02:05.010 --> 00:02:15.510
Jenny Mith: The grant proposal and deciding on whether or not to include the guy in boxes proposal, which seemed like it was going to take up a lot of PVC team time which is

16
00:02:16.140 --> 00:02:28.860
Jenny Mith: not realistic, given the upcoming main at lunch. So that is one thing that sort of blocked the submission of that grant application that would have otherwise been done.

17
00:02:29.550 --> 00:02:39.360
Jenny Mith: Towards the the middle or end of September. I think that has now been resolved, though, and it's something that we will discuss on this call and get ready for submission on this call as well.

18
00:02:40.020 --> 00:02:46.740
Jenny Mith: Are there any other progress points that that I'm missing. I know Ryan and you'd have been on a couple of these calls while and

19
00:02:46.980 --> 00:02:55.890
Jenny Mith: You've given some updates on the grants program but there might be some lingering questions about the foundation that I'm missing if anyone wants to chime in there.

20
00:03:00.030 --> 00:03:03.360
Ryan Arndt: They'll have to go to answer, everyone's questions around. I know we were just talking about the

21
00:03:04.230 --> 00:03:17.460
Ryan Arndt: The grant program so far and given funding and things, but looking forward to seeing the governance can be committed to the grant reviewing it will take some time to review these things. But yeah, looking forward to have a chance middle

22
00:03:20.100 --> 00:03:30.990
Jenny Mith: Okay. Thanks, Ryan and Juliet when you had come up with this idea. Were there any other work streams that we hadn't covered or that you wanted to hear updates on

23
00:03:32.010 --> 00:03:40.080
Juliet Oberding: No, that was the only product that I wanted to hear about from the, you know, our governance team here so

24
00:03:41.250 --> 00:03:41.640
Juliet Oberding: That's it.

25
00:03:42.870 --> 00:03:43.230
Jenny Mith: Okay.

26
00:03:44.340 --> 00:03:44.700
Jenny Mith: Good.

27
00:03:44.940 --> 00:03:46.470
Jenny Mith: Alright, so we'll move on to

28
00:03:46.620 --> 00:03:51.360
Jenny Mith: To stand ups who would like to go first. Since I've already been became

29
00:03:55.980 --> 00:04:01.860
Jenny Mith: Might just go down the list here, if that's all right. So I know Alex is just here lingering Alex is

30
00:04:02.070 --> 00:04:03.570
Jenny Mith: A newer participant everyone

31
00:04:03.780 --> 00:04:04.770
Jenny Mith: I'll make him feel welcome.

32
00:04:05.970 --> 00:04:12.210
Jenny Mith: The first person on my list after Alex is Harold Harold, would you like to get the stand up on anything that you've been working on.

33
00:04:13.980 --> 00:04:17.310
Harold Davis: Your shoe. Good to hear everybody

34
00:04:18.660 --> 00:04:24.090
Harold Davis: Say yes. And I've been working closely with the indigenous council that a few of you.

35
00:04:24.720 --> 00:04:25.620
Jenny Mith: Got a chance to meet

36
00:04:26.880 --> 00:04:28.230
Harold Davis: And still just

37
00:04:29.520 --> 00:04:43.080
Harold Davis: Finishing out sussing out some of the White Paper draft and adding some things that we've, you know, decided to add with this last kernel and have been getting together.

38
00:04:44.280 --> 00:04:46.800
Harold Davis: People that we met in the kernel.

39
00:04:48.120 --> 00:04:57.600
Harold Davis: And, you know, trying to get together some, some of the folks from the Council and hopefully this group as well in terms of

40
00:04:59.040 --> 00:05:16.980
Harold Davis: Understanding exactly what we can do with this indigenous council in what they have to offer governance was particular to this counter ticket to is working group, but also, I'd like to start some discussion with the folks that are here today around

41
00:05:18.060 --> 00:05:31.380
Harold Davis: fab Academy and the folks like to musty as that we hope to bring into discussions here and just get people familiarize with exactly, you know what I feel.

42
00:05:31.980 --> 00:05:46.680
Harold Davis: fab Academy has to offer to the ecosystem what refill the ecosystem has to offer fab Academy things that we've touched on before and those proposals that I know have been in the discussions for a while now.

43
00:05:47.820 --> 00:05:50.460
Harold Davis: But I would really like to get as many

44
00:05:51.900 --> 00:05:52.320
Harold Davis: You know,

45
00:05:53.580 --> 00:06:00.690
Harold Davis: Voices on your questions on exactly what fab Academy is and what this working group.

46
00:06:01.920 --> 00:06:07.500
Harold Davis: Will have to discuss with Tomas once we bring them into discussions, I'd love to have them have him in this working group.

47
00:06:08.700 --> 00:06:20.550
Harold Davis: At some point in a meeting or at least in the GitHub discussions, but also want to be sure that we've had as many voices more so then versus I know Jason and

48
00:06:21.750 --> 00:06:29.550
Harold Davis: Julie and Julia yet and some other folks may be more familiar with other folks and working group that maybe maybe newer

49
00:06:30.720 --> 00:06:43.920
Harold Davis: So yes, if there's if there's any questions. I think it's maybe I think this item could be six or something like this and the discussions tab and in the in the GitHub. There's proposals there.

50
00:06:45.030 --> 00:06:54.330
Harold Davis: That are specific to the indigenous council that we've been working with for the last two years now coming up on two years and

51
00:06:55.980 --> 00:07:04.470
Harold Davis: Also one specific for fab Academy. There is some overlap but they they are separate proposes.

52
00:07:07.170 --> 00:07:08.070
Harold Davis: In some ways,

53
00:07:09.540 --> 00:07:13.590
Harold Davis: So if I'd like to open up at any point later in today's

54
00:07:14.640 --> 00:07:21.600
Harold Davis: Meeting discussions around this to get as many voices as possible as we're all together. As of now,

55
00:07:23.100 --> 00:07:23.970
Harold Davis: But yes.

56
00:07:25.560 --> 00:07:27.270
Harold Davis: That's a stand up for myself.

57
00:07:28.590 --> 00:07:28.980
Harold Davis: For now.

58
00:07:31.020 --> 00:07:33.420
Jenny Mith: Okay, yeah, we can definitely cover that as a

59
00:07:33.420 --> 00:07:46.110
Jenny Mith: Discussion point later. And I think Jason can probably go go over the format for doing that. And for now we'll move down the list and Jason's actually next. So Jason, would you like to give your stand up.

60
00:07:48.690 --> 00:07:49.770
Jason Schrader: Sure, I can do that.

61
00:07:50.280 --> 00:07:54.120
Jason Schrader: And Harold. Great to have you back on the call and definitely anywhere I can help.

62
00:07:54.510 --> 00:07:58.710
Jason Schrader: put anything into GitHub or help you with that process. So we're always happy to help out.

63
00:07:59.340 --> 00:08:13.200
Jason Schrader: Right now I am working on a draft PR for the standard operating procedures. I am just going through kind of our process. What has changed and what's going on. And I just dropped a link to it in the chat there. If anybody wants to take a look

64
00:08:13.950 --> 00:08:20.730
Jason Schrader: And I'm going to go through this and try and make it as easy as possible for others to do things like creating a

65
00:08:21.300 --> 00:08:31.620
Jason Schrader: An agenda or updating resources, any of those steps that we take I'd like it to be easily replicated by others. So that's my one of my main goals.

66
00:08:32.040 --> 00:08:45.300
Jason Schrader: Also over the next two weeks. And at this time I don't have any blockers on that one. Just got to kind of walk through, we were able to get through a few of the things on our recent sink. And I think as we build it. We're going to learn more as we go along.

67
00:08:46.140 --> 00:08:55.560
Jason Schrader: The other cool thing I wanted to share too is um it was mentioned in the discord channel but we have created a new discord channel that's linked to this repository.

68
00:08:56.160 --> 00:09:04.170
Jason Schrader: And as a result of that any changes that we make, like if we create a new issue close out an issue, even with the PRS and things I submit

69
00:09:04.530 --> 00:09:14.310
Jason Schrader: Will get a nice running update of those things in discord now so it gives you another way to kind of keep track of the pulse of our repository and of our action items and what we're doing.

70
00:09:15.000 --> 00:09:20.280
Jason Schrader: And I definitely encourage everybody to take a look if you haven't seen that yet. It's under this tax governance heading.

71
00:09:21.540 --> 00:09:30.690
Jason Schrader: And the final thing I'm working on. Once I get past this draft PR for the standard operating procedures. I really wanted to take a look at our resources and calls table.

72
00:09:31.290 --> 00:09:39.450
Jason Schrader: And start getting that back up to date as well because we had a nice link to each video and I have some of them downloaded they need to go up to YouTube. So just some little things like that.

73
00:09:39.780 --> 00:09:46.020
Jason Schrader: But again, no blockers just trying to make the time to make it happen and documented along the way so others can do it in the future.

74
00:09:50.490 --> 00:09:51.270
Jenny Mith: Thanks, Jason.

75
00:09:51.630 --> 00:09:52.410
Jenny Mith: I Juliet.

76
00:09:57.210 --> 00:09:57.750
Juliet Oberding: Hi there.

77
00:09:57.930 --> 00:10:07.830
Juliet Oberding: Um, let's see. So I've just been thinking about some of the things we discussed yesterday when we had our brief call about different

78
00:10:12.210 --> 00:10:23.760
Juliet Oberding: tasks that were in the district are in the discussions area. And there's a, I was thinking of taking a dive into that a little bit and kind of looking at what we went through before and

79
00:10:24.180 --> 00:10:32.250
Juliet Oberding: What are some of the things that maybe we could get a move on, between now and may net and one other thing that I've been thinking about is we had

80
00:10:33.000 --> 00:10:44.220
Juliet Oberding: Previously thought about in the past about having some talks and it just brought it brought it to mind when Harold mentioned Fab Lab, as we talked about having like talks.

81
00:10:45.210 --> 00:10:55.200
Juliet Oberding: Whether they were on zoom or whatever with interesting people that are in governance and have relevance to what we do here in this group and

82
00:10:55.590 --> 00:11:12.300
Juliet Oberding: Presenting that to the rest of the community. So I'm going to be thinking on that a little bit and then the one thing I've been working on is, I'm working on a proposal, a grant proposal. So you all will see that when that comes out that that's that's about it for me.

83
00:11:15.150 --> 00:11:16.230
Jenny Mith: Oh, thanks. Julian.

84
00:11:17.580 --> 00:11:18.180
Jenny Mith: Ryan.

85
00:11:21.120 --> 00:11:25.080
Ryan Arndt: Sure, so I'm looking forward to reading Juliet's grant proposal one thing

86
00:11:26.610 --> 00:11:36.150
Ryan Arndt: But yeah, so we've been getting the word out. We're doing grants Demo Day. Next Friday. So when when you're let's do 10 that'd be great. Good questions about it.

87
00:11:36.630 --> 00:11:46.200
Ryan Arndt: Can ask their know there's gonna be some of the current app cancer recipients rather going to be showing off their applications or what they've been working on.

88
00:11:46.860 --> 00:11:55.800
Ryan Arndt: Because it can be really quite diverse will be working on it. As long as it's something benefits community is for future work candy foundational stones for granting improved.

89
00:11:56.640 --> 00:12:01.950
Ryan Arndt: But yes. So that is basically what we're doing most of the time. Now just getting the word out about that and getting a

90
00:12:02.940 --> 00:12:17.880
Ryan Arndt: question is answered. So anything around that, please feel free to ping me or reach out and I will help you can. So that's for the governance thing. I'm also just sitting in on these calls to be aware of what's going on because you all do so much. So thanks for doing on that.

91
00:12:20.970 --> 00:12:21.570
Jenny Mith: Thanks, Ryan.

92
00:12:21.990 --> 00:12:38.220
Jenny Mith: I thought, turn on the colors there, but he just dropped so maybe if he comes back on, he can give them a stand up a little later. So thank you for giving your standards, everyone actually Brian while you're here. Are there any foundation related updates that you want to give

93
00:12:39.270 --> 00:12:42.480
Jenny Mith: Or that you can give it sounds totally fine if not

94
00:12:43.170 --> 00:12:49.500
Ryan Arndt: I think it was mostly what I've said already, the promos, we keep everything updated on GitHub as much as possible. We're going to be

95
00:12:49.500 --> 00:12:54.990
Ryan Arndt: Moving to grant.io should be seeing that on a regular day just yet home that

96
00:12:56.400 --> 00:12:58.920
Ryan Arndt: It will also get in the form of migration done so.

97
00:13:00.150 --> 00:13:09.840
Ryan Arndt: That is ongoing. But yeah, so more and more going on with the foundation and depth. If you're not signed up for the newsletter to we got data that goes out on Wednesdays.

98
00:13:10.380 --> 00:13:26.430
Ryan Arndt: Every second Wednesday. So that's if you want stay on top of domination stuff I put things in there. Of course, in the channel that we haven't. Thank you, Jason again for adding the stack scope notifications channel crust sex foundation area in discord. It's great to see.

99
00:13:28.320 --> 00:13:29.820
Jenny Mith: Ryan and

100
00:13:29.910 --> 00:13:32.160
Jenny Mith: I think I was going to add something.

101
00:13:32.550 --> 00:13:44.010
Jenny Mith: There I think everybody saw the rebrand and saw that the sack Foundation website and Twitter head rebranded to the stacks branding is also, I thought that was pretty cool news and

102
00:13:44.970 --> 00:14:00.120
Jenny Mith: Just from an ecosystem standpoint solidifies that this project is an ecosystem and not just a collection of random entities and in the sack foundation is the first entity to take that branding on so I consider that an update.

103
00:14:01.590 --> 00:14:15.810
Jenny Mith: And alright so just to check with us and we this is this agenda set up such that we do just want to go straight into action items and then save the discussion items for last. Right. So we click on this and find

104
00:14:16.980 --> 00:14:18.120
Jenny Mith: The action items that are

105
00:14:19.140 --> 00:14:20.010
Jenny Mith: Here for discussion.

106
00:14:21.510 --> 00:14:27.900
Jason Schrader: Yeah, exactly. So that way we don't have to document them again in the agenda or anything like that. We just go directly off the label.

107
00:14:28.650 --> 00:14:34.080
Jason Schrader: And for the items in here. I did just jump in before the meeting and kind of close out some of the older ones.

108
00:14:34.140 --> 00:14:46.800
Jason Schrader: And that was part of why we set up that discord to get hub link as well so that people can be in the loop when issues are opened and closed so that if you wanted to comment or reopen something or just something again. It's really easy.

109
00:14:47.370 --> 00:14:51.060
Jason Schrader: But basically we can go through each of these. And if I can provide any input, let me know.

110
00:14:52.290 --> 00:14:52.650
Jenny Mith: Okay.

111
00:14:52.890 --> 00:14:54.900
Jenny Mith: So I think this one just came up

112
00:14:56.220 --> 00:15:05.040
Jenny Mith: To fix a link on the doc site, page two lanes analysis of the survey results right. This just came up and discord any other color you had

113
00:15:05.490 --> 00:15:09.570
Jason Schrader: Yeah, we found out. So just to give a little technical background on that we use.

114
00:15:10.320 --> 00:15:15.660
Jason Schrader: To generate a web page automatically for both the project management and the resources repo.

115
00:15:16.050 --> 00:15:22.380
Jason Schrader: And I've had some trouble with the relative linking. So, in the sense that I tell it. There's a PDF file in there.

116
00:15:22.740 --> 00:15:32.250
Jason Schrader: And it's not structuring the link correctly for someone to be able to access that PDF file. So I have an idea of a few workarounds but definitely appreciate it being brought to light. So I can take a look at it.

117
00:15:32.970 --> 00:15:38.310
Jason Schrader: But that one. I'll actually assign that one to me. I'm going to take care of that this week as well. Okay, great.

118
00:15:39.870 --> 00:15:50.430
Jenny Mith: And this one I think I've notified and given all of you had talked about this. This is also a discussion item as well. And, but I have

119
00:15:51.270 --> 00:15:59.520
Jenny Mith: If you haven't seen the latest version. There actually aren't that many changes to after I went in and reviewed it, but I basically think that

120
00:16:00.180 --> 00:16:10.590
Jenny Mith: The grant application is ready for submission and because it's in a good place. In terms of the way that it's written and if there are any points that

121
00:16:11.490 --> 00:16:19.530
Jenny Mith: Are confusing and that are that we're missing. I'm sure that we'll hear about them in the feedback that we get from Ryan and the folks at the foundation

122
00:16:20.250 --> 00:16:26.670
Jenny Mith: So, but I did just want to flag the notable changes I've made. So over the course of the last few calls

123
00:16:27.300 --> 00:16:37.110
Jenny Mith: I think we established that the guy a hub in boxes work stream of this proposal, at least for now is too ambitious, given that

124
00:16:37.800 --> 00:16:53.640
Jenny Mith: We would need time from the PVC engineering team to create the design document and to basically oversee and manage the work, it would be relatively lower left for them to do. But given that the main net is meant to launch soon.

125
00:16:54.780 --> 00:17:07.290
Jenny Mith: I think that anytime might be difficult to get so we got rid of that for this application, but it is definitely something that we can table and bring up for the next round of

126
00:17:07.950 --> 00:17:17.880
Jenny Mith: Grant renewal and we change the methodology for testing voting mechanisms as recommended by Jude, so I can scroll down to that area.

127
00:17:19.230 --> 00:17:34.650
Jenny Mith: And so, originally what we were going to do was test a few different voting mechanisms by pulling the general community on different issues. So we would put a question out there on discord Twitter telegram and

128
00:17:35.160 --> 00:17:41.790
Jenny Mith: Gather those results using the different testing mechanisms but Jude raise that one of the issues with that could be that

129
00:17:43.170 --> 00:17:52.350
Jenny Mith: It's just a lot of work to manage releasing questions every couple of weeks or so and it wouldn't we couldn't really rely on folks to participate in those polls.

130
00:17:52.620 --> 00:18:02.280
Jenny Mith: Regularly so a better way to do it would be to host something like a focus group with some folks from the community and during which they would

131
00:18:02.970 --> 00:18:10.260
Jenny Mith: Use each of those the voting mechanisms that we want to test and by voting on on different issues. So that's outlined here.

132
00:18:10.650 --> 00:18:26.670
Jenny Mith: I think that it made sense. And I think that we get a much more reliable or I think that we would get a much more reliable data set that way. Lane raise some issues about having criteria for what would qualify a voting mechanism is as more accurate or more

133
00:18:27.960 --> 00:18:42.360
Jenny Mith: Effective at measuring community sentiment. And I think that that's totally legitimate point. And that's something that we can outline later actually. After we get review for this application, but I just wanted. I wanted to find that change to

134
00:18:43.080 --> 00:18:55.920
Jenny Mith: The methodology for this. And then the final one was that I did decrease the budget and and build in that it would compensate project leads, I think. Previously, we'd said that the budget.

135
00:18:56.340 --> 00:19:04.620
Jenny Mith: Or the grant wouldn't be used to compensate any of the working group members, but some of the leads on these projects would probably spend quite a lot of time.

136
00:19:04.980 --> 00:19:14.700
Jenny Mith: On making sure that they happen and they would also be working group members. So you would actually be compensated for your time and I think I personally think that's totally fine lane flag that this might be too low.

137
00:19:15.540 --> 00:19:23.430
Jenny Mith: I'm, I'm totally okay with raising it if everyone thinks that we should raise it to more i just i just sort of put that number in there as like

138
00:19:24.150 --> 00:19:30.720
Jenny Mith: A test number for this first application. I think that just getting feedback from from others on

139
00:19:31.260 --> 00:19:40.170
Jenny Mith: A number that seems right would be helpful here but I basically said $600 would go to go toward compensating the project leads and

140
00:19:40.650 --> 00:19:50.790
Jenny Mith: And so it'd be $300 per person and then there'd be $400 from this lead costs and I'm sorry I feel like I've turned this into a discussion item instead of an action items. I'll stop there.

141
00:19:56.310 --> 00:19:58.920
Jason Schrader: I would do want to comment. I think that's perfectly fine because it's

142
00:19:58.920 --> 00:20:06.630
Jason Schrader: Something that you know we all definitely want some great feedback on so you know if anybody else wants to chime in, or include anything or any thoughts on that one.

143
00:20:06.960 --> 00:20:12.480
Jason Schrader: I think that's a big actionable item that we're very close to completing so i don't i don't see an issue with taking the time they're

144
00:20:15.630 --> 00:20:27.780
Jenny Mith: Cool. And, well, why don't we, we have a few more action items here, Jason. It looks like most of them are have either been opened by you or lane, do you just want to go over them. So we know what's going on here.

145
00:20:27.780 --> 00:20:34.530
Jason Schrader: And then we can move on to discussion. Yeah, definitely. So following the grant application, we have

146
00:20:34.560 --> 00:20:38.220
Jason Schrader: A I did want to update these GitHub pages to eventually use this

147
00:20:38.220 --> 00:20:46.470
Jason Schrader: tax.org or like a sub domain for resources.sec.org or something like that. We're not at a stage now where we're ready to do that with the

148
00:20:47.130 --> 00:20:53.340
Jason Schrader: Actual domain and some of the backend stuff still being in transition. So it's just an open item that we're going to address eventually

149
00:20:53.850 --> 00:21:04.050
Jason Schrader: The next one, though, following up a survey respondents. We may have missed our window on this, and I'd be curious what everyone thinks you know if it's something we should still do, or if it's something we should just close out

150
00:21:04.770 --> 00:21:13.290
Jason Schrader: But the idea was, you know, we did that whole big survey. Now, we had a captured List of emails and we could say hey you know we we had even a draft up of what we would say

151
00:21:13.680 --> 00:21:27.990
Jason Schrader: And we got kind of blocked from actually sending that email. So I would like to know if people would think we should still send that or should we just close this out and move on. Definitely looking for some feedback there. If anybody has any. I'll pause for a minute.

152
00:21:33.180 --> 00:21:48.720
Jenny Mith: I think that we may have missed our window to email them about the survey specifically and but we have, we do have this list of emails that we can use. And I think if we weren't going to email them, it would be with

153
00:21:49.650 --> 00:21:55.860
Jenny Mith: Or it should be with something that we've accomplished. So something like the results of this grant application or

154
00:21:57.030 --> 00:21:59.550
Jenny Mith: Just a anything else that would

155
00:22:00.780 --> 00:22:03.510
Jenny Mith: showcase the work that the governance group has done.

156
00:22:06.270 --> 00:22:06.870
Jenny Mith: I don't know what other

157
00:22:07.230 --> 00:22:10.740
Juliet Oberding: I agree. Yeah, I agree with that. I think that it would be

158
00:22:12.060 --> 00:22:13.200
Juliet Oberding: Problematic to

159
00:22:13.290 --> 00:22:19.920
Juliet Oberding: Reach out to people, you know, after such a period of time has gone past and there's a disconnect between when they

160
00:22:20.670 --> 00:22:29.100
Juliet Oberding: responded to the survey. And today, so I don't think that would really work. And we probably wouldn't get much response anyway.

161
00:22:30.090 --> 00:22:39.600
Juliet Oberding: But we should probably you know look back at this and said anything else that we haven't been able to get to, because of know all the other work that's come up and

162
00:22:41.070 --> 00:22:49.740
Juliet Oberding: See what we can make out of it, you know, but I agree with all of you about the responding following up with a survey respondents

163
00:22:53.250 --> 00:22:55.950
Jason Schrader: Alright. In that case, I think that I'll go ahead and close this.

164
00:22:55.950 --> 00:23:06.000
Jason Schrader: Issue out unless there is anybody that is opposed to that on the call right now and then we can address anything in the future issue or, you know, we can always look back on it, historically, as well.

165
00:23:06.420 --> 00:23:12.150
Jason Schrader: So, is there anybody who would be against that or thinks we should keep it open. Otherwise, I'll take care of that after the call.

166
00:23:13.140 --> 00:23:16.680
Jenny Mith: Not against it. But can we just add a comment or I know with

167
00:23:16.770 --> 00:23:21.390
Jenny Mith: What we just talked about, so that if we do look back on it, we know why we close it out for now.

168
00:23:22.020 --> 00:23:22.830
Jason Schrader: Yes, definitely.

169
00:23:24.060 --> 00:23:24.690
Jason Schrader: Thanks, Jason.

170
00:23:29.340 --> 00:23:38.430
Jason Schrader: Alright, with nothing further there. I'll go ahead and move on to the last two. So the account management standard operating procedures as being addressed in my draft pull request.

171
00:23:38.850 --> 00:23:48.990
Jason Schrader: Basically just trying to get all of that hammered out. And then the last one we talked about meeting conference software. And one of the things we came up with yesterday in our quick little sink.

172
00:23:49.440 --> 00:23:58.440
Jason Schrader: Is to move forward in in the easiest way possible, which is going to be to start a zoom account under the foundation and use that as our consistent link for meetings.

173
00:23:58.860 --> 00:24:06.150
Jason Schrader: But the ideas here were to move to something maybe more decentralized or that might better serve our purpose and mission in the long run.

174
00:24:06.990 --> 00:24:14.430
Jason Schrader: So I think we'll keep this one open, but I don't think it's something we're going to get into right away, and I'll make some comments just on that. That decision in itself.

175
00:24:14.910 --> 00:24:22.170
Jason Schrader: But we really just want to keep that low barrier to entry. So if we keep things as they are right now and develop some consistency. We can leave room to change in the future.

176
00:24:29.580 --> 00:24:35.820
Phillip Roe: I have friends. Sorry about later looks like and I forgot that was half an hour.

177
00:24:37.260 --> 00:24:47.760
Phillip Roe: Earlier, but I think I was trying to yesterday, I made a conference and and there was TRY NEW, NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND ALL THAT AND STILL still is.

178
00:24:49.110 --> 00:24:50.160
Phillip Roe: This a lot of

179
00:24:50.850 --> 00:25:03.180
Phillip Roe: To develop and to do, you know, in order to make it easier. So whatever we have right now. You said soon. That's for the moment, I think that we have to keep on using it.

180
00:25:06.900 --> 00:25:11.100
Phillip Roe: I would like to develop one solution, but with this is a lot of work.

181
00:25:13.980 --> 00:25:17.700
Jenny Mith: I think everyone. So Jason, to be clear, we're, we're going to keep that

182
00:25:17.970 --> 00:25:25.380
Jenny Mith: Open and but we're going to keep that issue open, but it's not necessarily urgent that we

183
00:25:26.580 --> 00:25:28.650
Jenny Mith: Pick new software that

184
00:25:29.310 --> 00:25:41.130
Jason Schrader: Yes. Yeah, or at least I think that's where we're at now because we have done a ton of work and reviewing a few different services. I know Phillips tried out a few you and I did some tests with Jessie. And we've seen some mixed results to where

185
00:25:41.640 --> 00:25:45.660
Jason Schrader: I don't see something confident that I'm confident in moving to at this moment.

186
00:25:46.050 --> 00:26:00.150
Jason Schrader: But I do like the idea of keeping it open as something to think about. So what I'll do is add a comment just that we're going to move forward with plan A, and we can always develop Plan B in the future, or if anybody does test out different meeting software has a really good

187
00:26:00.150 --> 00:26:02.070
Jason Schrader: Experience or think there's something they would

188
00:26:02.130 --> 00:26:08.640
Jason Schrader: Recommend us using make a comment on that issue. That would be the best place for that information to keep it rolling

189
00:26:10.320 --> 00:26:10.530
Jason Schrader: Okay.

190
00:26:11.070 --> 00:26:13.230
Jenny Mith: Sounds good. I think that we can comment, even with

191
00:26:13.260 --> 00:26:31.680
Jenny Mith: Alternatives to self, we have, like, if we do continue using zoom a community account that our group connect can access this is an even better idea than or like it as an intermediate sort of solution on our way to picking conference software that we actually stand behind

192
00:26:33.450 --> 00:26:33.990
Jason Schrader: Exactly.

193
00:26:36.150 --> 00:26:39.810
Jenny Mith: Okay, great. So we've gone over the action items.

194
00:26:41.310 --> 00:26:43.770
Jenny Mith: Now it's on to discussion points.

195
00:26:52.230 --> 00:26:53.250
Jenny Mith: I'm clicking on the label.

196
00:27:06.330 --> 00:27:09.540
Jenny Mith: Alright, so now we're moving on to

197
00:27:10.680 --> 00:27:13.650
Jenny Mith: Discussion items. And the first one was this

198
00:27:14.760 --> 00:27:15.480
Jenny Mith: I guess.

199
00:27:16.740 --> 00:27:17.760
Jenny Mith: What we're here.

200
00:27:19.770 --> 00:27:30.150
Jenny Mith: Today, things that I wanted to discuss here before actually moving forward with submission was well. Does anyone have any questions on these changes.

201
00:27:34.860 --> 00:27:36.600
Jenny Mith: So, you know, everyone is cool.

202
00:27:36.600 --> 00:27:47.220
Jenny Mith: With getting rid of the guy have been boxes work stream for now. And does the change in testing methodology makes sense.

203
00:27:52.500 --> 00:27:57.600
Harold Davis: seems to make sense considering your participation issues.

204
00:27:58.650 --> 00:27:59.730
Harold Davis: Also

205
00:28:01.140 --> 00:28:02.430
Harold Davis: Was there. Was there ever a

206
00:28:03.600 --> 00:28:06.300
Harold Davis: Decision made out. So there's no separation of

207
00:28:07.980 --> 00:28:08.910
Harold Davis: The grants here.

208
00:28:10.050 --> 00:28:11.010
Harold Davis: Because the

209
00:28:12.210 --> 00:28:19.680
Harold Davis: The code of conduct, combined with the voting, which is still working progress because of maintenance crew.

210
00:28:22.710 --> 00:28:32.370
Jenny Mith: Or are you asking Harold whether we were, we decided to turn each of these work streams into individual grant applications, instead of one.

211
00:28:32.820 --> 00:28:33.450
Overarching

212
00:28:35.100 --> 00:28:45.930
Jenny Mith: I think we had discussed that. And there were, there was mixed feedback. But ultimately I think every one seemed okay with having it be in one grant proposal.

213
00:28:46.740 --> 00:28:56.310
Jenny Mith: Because the idea of this proposal is to basically give the working group legitimacy as a group that leads work streams.

214
00:28:56.970 --> 00:29:03.660
Jenny Mith: That sort of the larger stacks community. So these are pressing issues that have come up within the facts community itself and

215
00:29:04.020 --> 00:29:21.900
Jenny Mith: As, as a group, we want to be able to take the lead on those issues and solve them in a good amount of time. And so by this is almost like a debut for the working group. These are the things that we want to work on and and should we accomplish them by the first quarter of 2021

216
00:29:23.640 --> 00:29:26.880
Jenny Mith: People know that this is a group that actually get things done.

217
00:29:28.020 --> 00:29:36.750
Harold Davis: Right. Right. Yeah. So just thank you for clarifying. And, um, it's good to see at the bottom. The the

218
00:29:37.950 --> 00:29:49.650
Harold Davis: The, the bounties for the small the small tasks from the work that and so far it seems like Jason and Lane yourself and other folks have been been doing

219
00:29:50.760 --> 00:29:51.300
Harold Davis: For free.

220
00:29:52.440 --> 00:29:56.340
Harold Davis: And so it's, um, it's nice to see that until the only other question would be,

221
00:29:58.050 --> 00:30:11.700
Harold Davis: With with yourselves being more familiar with what it takes for the for the upkeep of things I get the different tasks. I see that there's pretty comprehensive layout of the hours that would likely be needed.

222
00:30:14.280 --> 00:30:19.170
Harold Davis: Lane mentioned and maybe maybe need for more. Is there anybody else that has a similar sentiment or

223
00:30:20.310 --> 00:30:29.130
Harold Davis: How you know just with the with the rhythm that you guys are familiar with how much more if there's means to I'm siding, how much more

224
00:30:32.280 --> 00:30:53.280
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I would love to hear any feedback on on the number I to be totally honest I pick this very arbitrarily, we can ask for up to 5000 I started off small knowing that we might want to work our way up to, to a number. So I'm I'm open to this current total number of $1,000 being changed.

225
00:30:55.980 --> 00:31:06.210
Harold Davis: In myself. I wouldn't, I wouldn't be as familiar with as other folks that have had more input with things on the GitHub and so I'm interested as well.

226
00:31:08.790 --> 00:31:21.390
Jenny Mith: I will say that when I was sort of about working out the numbers and you know $300 for two quarters of work from one project to lead would, you know, work out to

227
00:31:22.800 --> 00:31:34.440
Jenny Mith: $3 over 10 hours herself so two hours over five weeks or some i think i think that's that's generally where my head was that two to three hours per week over 12 weeks.

228
00:31:35.160 --> 00:31:44.880
Jenny Mith: It's more than that. But I was actually thinking in terms of one quarter so we can help this so that it's generally 20 to $30 an hour.

229
00:31:48.540 --> 00:31:59.310
Jason Schrader: That was going to be my common as well as to kind of take it back to what it would be as an hourly rate for someone to work towards that it makes a little easier to kind of visualize and set that goal, as well as to

230
00:31:59.700 --> 00:32:14.220
Jason Schrader: Outline a little more about the milestones, right, like we say, Okay, we're going to spend 10 hours towards this. And so much an hour, it would cost that it gives us a little better reference for that, but I can throw some comments into the document on on what I think for that as well.

231
00:32:18.000 --> 00:32:26.520
Juliet Oberding: Yeah, I also agree with the, the rate, looking at what the hourly rate is and looking at how many hours putting that

232
00:32:27.630 --> 00:32:35.040
Juliet Oberding: And I will happy to assist Jason or anyone else has some plenty more information.

233
00:32:36.660 --> 00:32:38.880
Jenny Mith: Yeah, that would be great. And I think

234
00:32:39.210 --> 00:32:50.100
Jenny Mith: I think this is probably our final blocker to to actually submitting it just drilling down on the budget. So if you guys could add some context there. And I think it's great to sort of

235
00:32:50.610 --> 00:33:01.020
Jenny Mith: Outline the milestones. So we're looking at how many hours are required for certain parts of the project. How would be helpful. And I think the last question I want to ask is,

236
00:33:01.530 --> 00:33:14.100
Jenny Mith: I don't think it's appropriate for me to submit this application. So is there anyone in this group who would be willing to submit this on grants repo.

237
00:33:17.700 --> 00:33:29.700
Juliet Oberding: Sure. I mean, I'll step up as soon as we we figure we get these last few things cleaned up and I don't see that there would be a problem getting those things cleaned up fairly rapidly.

238
00:33:31.110 --> 00:33:32.010
Jenny Mith: Awesome. Okay.

239
00:33:32.820 --> 00:33:40.950
Ryan Arndt: The one thing with Julie. I figured submit another one off, check with Britney, but we're trying to not fund if someone's about to application is not fun at the same time.

240
00:33:41.340 --> 00:33:54.960
Ryan Arndt: Like wait till ones don't tell comes up. So if somebody else were to do that I'll check with bringing if that be the case for because the government's committees, not like the same thing as an individual. I mean, so just to make sure on that for you submitted, okay.

241
00:33:54.960 --> 00:33:59.970
Juliet Oberding: Yeah, that would be that would be appreciative because I'm already working on something else.

242
00:34:00.360 --> 00:34:03.540
Juliet Oberding: Yeah, another ground and I don't want to run into

243
00:34:05.670 --> 00:34:07.320
Juliet Oberding: That issue so cool.

244
00:34:07.830 --> 00:34:08.310
Ryan Arndt: Thank you.

245
00:34:09.480 --> 00:34:09.750
Ryan Arndt: Thanks.

246
00:34:10.680 --> 00:34:11.010
Ryan.

247
00:34:13.050 --> 00:34:25.770
Jenny Mith: And okay, actually, this is the final question is if we can get these changes fixed relatively quickly. Are we comfortable with submitting this either at the end of day today or early tomorrow.

248
00:34:30.030 --> 00:34:33.180
Jason Schrader: I don't see any blockers to getting it in and getting it done.

249
00:34:34.710 --> 00:34:41.730
Juliet Oberding: Well, I agree. Um, I would say that for my schedule for the rest of the day tomorrow morning would be a good bat.

250
00:34:43.920 --> 00:34:47.820
Jenny Mith: Wonderful. Great. Okay. So we're going to submit this morning.

251
00:34:50.160 --> 00:34:51.930
Jenny Mith: Congrats on this is really cool.

252
00:34:53.130 --> 00:34:57.060
Ryan Arndt: Yay, awesome seeing it come together in

253
00:34:58.140 --> 00:34:58.650
Jason Schrader: A moment.

254
00:34:58.950 --> 00:35:06.930
Juliet Oberding: Yeah. Yes. Awesome. And congrats to. I mean, there's a lot of work, Jenny, you put it did put a lot of work in keeping this going and

255
00:35:07.470 --> 00:35:21.690
Juliet Oberding: And everyone here has done Jason has done a lot of work everyone here is really put in some great you know effort, Jude and all the conference calls. So it's really exciting. Um, thank you. You guys for all the work you've done

256
00:35:22.710 --> 00:35:23.460
Jenny Mith: Thanks, Julian.

257
00:35:23.850 --> 00:35:28.140
Phillip Roe: I don't work has been done and I'm nice to hear you on this tonight.

258
00:35:29.580 --> 00:35:30.480
Nice to meet you again.

259
00:35:34.290 --> 00:35:49.170
Jenny Mith: Alright, so let's get back to the discussion we've got a bit of time left, and Jason. I'm not sure. The best way to go about this because I the person who wrote this. I don't think is here. So don't think it's worth going over this.

260
00:35:50.280 --> 00:35:50.880
Jenny Mith: And

261
00:35:52.500 --> 00:35:54.870
Jason Schrader: I've been debating the best way to kind of handle this.

262
00:35:54.990 --> 00:36:09.690
Jason Schrader: stuff as well. I think that having a kind of high level overview might be interesting. So that if somebody wanted to either talk about this from their own perspective that's here on the call, or if there was, you know, any additional information they

263
00:36:09.690 --> 00:36:21.960
Jason Schrader: Have. That's good. Otherwise, I think it's, it's more if there's anybody who has an issue that they represent on this list to definitely step up and just kind of give an update or we can add it in the comments or something like that. So,

264
00:36:22.380 --> 00:36:41.100
Jason Schrader: Regarding that GT DLD proposal, I thought it was a fascinating idea it's around creating like a dot stacks or sex type domain name and it is a large undertaking that would probably be done by the foundation or by PVC or something else or may even

265
00:36:42.510 --> 00:36:55.710
Jason Schrader: Be a whole separate discussion topic for that. But it was, it was kind of a cool topic. Overall, and if the, if anybody has any comments on that or has had any thoughts about that. It's pretty cool. Otherwise, I'd say, we can definitely move on to the next thing.

266
00:37:03.780 --> 00:37:08.190
Jason Schrader: Alright, and the next two were from me. So we're starting to

267
00:37:08.880 --> 00:37:18.900
Jason Schrader: These are still just kind of open discussion items to figuring out how to assign sort of actionable roles or responsibilities to people within the working group without

268
00:37:19.410 --> 00:37:27.210
Jason Schrader: Creating too much friction at the same time. So we know we talked about having like someone who would publish updates after a meeting or somebody who would take notes.

269
00:37:28.020 --> 00:37:32.490
Jason Schrader: During the meeting to do something like that. And we've been hashing it out.

270
00:37:32.940 --> 00:37:40.560
Jason Schrader: A little bit each time with the team, the sinks and the meetings themselves. So I think these are just more open discussion items to think of what that would look like.

271
00:37:40.950 --> 00:37:49.020
Jason Schrader: And I definitely welcome anybody to provide any feedback or any thoughts in the issues or anything like that, but I don't have anything to add, in particular for those

272
00:37:50.160 --> 00:37:58.530
Jason Schrader: The one following that those two roles, though, is the town hall meeting or a general public call and this was something that everybody

273
00:37:59.370 --> 00:38:04.770
Jason Schrader: On the past few meetings that we talked about. It was really interested in this idea that we would rotate

274
00:38:05.250 --> 00:38:20.400
Jason Schrader: Maybe once every few months or I don't know what the, what the pro schedule would be but to have an actual town hall, much like they do with the box tech stuff and it's still just remains as an open discussion item, but would it would anybody have anything to add for for that one.

275
00:38:24.480 --> 00:38:25.620
Ryan Arndt: Give me like a governance.

276
00:38:26.400 --> 00:38:27.390
Ryan Arndt: Committee only total

277
00:38:29.730 --> 00:38:33.030
Phillip Roe: I mean, it's probably the whole community invited for this.

278
00:38:34.290 --> 00:38:34.830
Phillip Roe: Governance

279
00:38:37.950 --> 00:38:40.680
Phillip Roe: Because you know that that the the

280
00:38:43.290 --> 00:38:44.730
Phillip Roe: Mix of Spanish and English.

281
00:38:51.060 --> 00:39:00.240
Phillip Roe: Wow. Sorry about the distance you know it's getting bigger and bigger every, every day so of the of the people we know word as a governance.

282
00:39:02.880 --> 00:39:19.560
Phillip Roe: Say action and also what what you're doing. So, you know, whatever we advance that will be. That's good. I mean, it's every step we do, we will help the you know the word of the community. Because essentially, this

283
00:39:21.960 --> 00:39:24.360
Phillip Roe: block chain communities, you know, they

284
00:39:25.530 --> 00:39:32.670
Phillip Roe: Have ecosystems, you know, they require kinda kind of governance that understand, you know, the spirit of what we're trying to do.

285
00:39:33.240 --> 00:39:38.340
Phillip Roe: And and so that's something that, that that's not some

286
00:39:38.970 --> 00:40:00.000
Phillip Roe: It's not something that you're going to achieve it in a right away. I mean is, especially if it's growing. And there's some incentives, especially financial incentives that brings people you know that and and most of the ecosystems have mentioned that the first people that come our

287
00:40:02.400 --> 00:40:08.880
Phillip Roe: Our people that is typically the best speaker look at people and sometimes they're not the best.

288
00:40:10.440 --> 00:40:15.660
Phillip Roe: PEOPLE THAT TO HAVE ATTITUDES as something something's very competitive.

289
00:40:17.190 --> 00:40:26.280
Phillip Roe: So that does some things that at least you know we have to make sure that you know to keep on that good spirit that we have seen

290
00:40:27.300 --> 00:40:31.380
Phillip Roe: So that's up you can you cannot do it, just one chapter has to be

291
00:40:32.460 --> 00:40:33.660
Phillip Roe: Systematically than

292
00:40:35.880 --> 00:40:37.830
Phillip Roe: The problem is that so many things to do.

293
00:40:38.940 --> 00:40:41.190
Phillip Roe: But at least you know a small thing we have to start

294
00:40:43.740 --> 00:40:55.410
Jason Schrader: Sure, I totally understand that Philip I think the easiest thing we could probably do is just to pick a date for the first one, and to answer your question, Ryan. And this will be more of just an invitation to the general public to

295
00:40:56.130 --> 00:41:05.520
Jason Schrader: Take a look at what the governance working group is doing, how we're implementing governance in the stacks ecosystem, how we interact as a group and what we do in our meetings.

296
00:41:05.820 --> 00:41:19.740
Jason Schrader: Kind of highlight some resources. So more of a high level overview. A lot like block stack would host their town halls, just about the blockchain and everything else and give people a chance to interact and maybe broaden the attendees and the involvement in the group as well.

297
00:41:21.420 --> 00:41:21.810
Juliet Oberding: I think

298
00:41:22.200 --> 00:41:34.170
Juliet Oberding: I think this would def i i'm really excited about this. Actually, and because I know we talked about this before, but I think that we can also dovetail in with the idea of having a speaker in addition

299
00:41:36.120 --> 00:41:54.840
Juliet Oberding: Maybe not on the town hall, but something that goes along with this with speakers that are known in governance within blockchain as well as highlighting what we're doing. And I don't know about these are some ideas that I've had that I think would be really interesting and

300
00:41:56.040 --> 00:41:59.130
Juliet Oberding: Maybe interesting to the community as well.

301
00:42:01.980 --> 00:42:05.250
Ryan Arndt: Sometimes people will use discord hang up that way.

302
00:42:06.570 --> 00:42:16.500
Ryan Arndt: Like been arrested on that in the past, but I don't know if this is something you'd want to do over zoom over crowd cast, just depending how big of a group, you want to get to guess.

303
00:42:19.410 --> 00:42:21.360
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think that will depend on

304
00:42:22.590 --> 00:42:31.830
Jenny Mith: The format we decided to take. I will say that you know what the purpose of any, any old town hall is to bring people together and discuss

305
00:42:33.810 --> 00:42:41.250
Jenny Mith: Pricing issues or they don't even have to be pressing but relevant issues for that particular community and which I think that we can

306
00:42:41.640 --> 00:42:53.970
Jenny Mith: Execute on really well. I think what I worry about is the follow up after that. So it's good to provide a space to people to air out their concerns and raise potential projects.

307
00:42:54.300 --> 00:43:06.060
Jenny Mith: But what capacity do we have to turn that feedback into new actionable plans or steps. I think that this. I feel like this requires a little more thinking on a strategic level.

308
00:43:06.720 --> 00:43:14.190
Jenny Mith: But I am definitely for providing a space to community to just talk about governance in general, I just wonder what the next step after that would be

309
00:43:16.170 --> 00:43:16.620
Juliet Oberding: I

310
00:43:16.680 --> 00:43:20.670
Juliet Oberding: Let me just address that as I think that in the next topic, the

311
00:43:21.150 --> 00:43:23.400
Juliet Oberding: Roadmap. I think that gives some

312
00:43:25.290 --> 00:43:40.440
Juliet Oberding: If we're if we if I think that we need to have, as you say, more of a strategic plan so that when we have the, the town hall. We also know what we want to accomplish with that and what next steps are so everything you've addressed.

313
00:43:40.860 --> 00:43:49.590
Juliet Oberding: In your when a minute ago, Jenny. I think that those are things that we really need to when we put these anything like this together, we need to understand

314
00:43:49.920 --> 00:44:02.250
Juliet Oberding: What's the reason we're doing it. And what we want to accomplish and what are the next steps to follow up. So I think that also dovetails in with roadmaps and being able to have a roadmap with this group so

315
00:44:05.340 --> 00:44:06.540
Juliet Oberding: Perhaps you're not ready for it.

316
00:44:07.710 --> 00:44:08.220
Jenny Mith: Actually

317
00:44:08.370 --> 00:44:21.090
Jenny Mith: I will maybe I'm like shooting myself in the foot by saying this on a public call, but I would, I would be happy to assign the roadmap issue to myself is something to start thinking about and start taking on

318
00:44:22.200 --> 00:44:26.970
Jenny Mith: So, and I can, I can fill in the details of that later. But that's something that I would be

319
00:44:27.390 --> 00:44:40.110
Jenny Mith: Really happy to do. And I know we only have five minutes left. I want to make sure that Harold gets some time to discuss the next issue, but totally agree. JULIET And that actually gets me really excited about the next couple of months of work on this.

320
00:44:47.850 --> 00:44:51.270
Jenny Mith: And Harold, do you want to go over a few number four.

321
00:44:51.660 --> 00:44:52.380
Harold Davis: Is this

322
00:44:52.440 --> 00:45:00.990
Harold Davis: Yes intake. You can't eat it is an issue 54 and I think I said this earlier, but it is 54 and I just

323
00:45:01.770 --> 00:45:15.180
Harold Davis: Encourage people here that are here to to go to the issue and check out the two separate proposals and the two separate one pages that have described as one pages to describe those proposals and

324
00:45:16.830 --> 00:45:25.620
Harold Davis: I encourage folks to it is quite, I know it may. It's a lot at once, especially if you're not familiar with the different things mentioned

325
00:45:26.550 --> 00:45:38.940
Harold Davis: But I do want as many voices as possible so it doesn't seem as if it's just a couple people that are real familiar with, you know, what is going on in terms of potential collaboration between

326
00:45:40.500 --> 00:45:52.290
Harold Davis: Our ecosystem and the fab Academy ecosystem and network and and and so, just feel free to contribute in the in the GitHub issue.

327
00:45:53.460 --> 00:46:07.200
Harold Davis: For for questions or discussions on, feel free to fire any quickly here as I quickly shut up. And, um, yeah, that's all I have for now, but I think I'll be putting together a meeting.

328
00:46:08.190 --> 00:46:14.880
Harold Davis: With folks that are familiar with it and try to you know get together availabilities or just have personal one on one calls

329
00:46:15.900 --> 00:46:31.770
Harold Davis: With with folks that like Jenny and Juliet and Jason who have already and Lane already expressed interest and maybe already familiar with it, but feel free to reach out and and start some of this discussion and

330
00:46:33.630 --> 00:46:39.030
Harold Davis: Spread it to others as well as I know, Tomas is going to want to speak to people.

331
00:46:40.470 --> 00:46:59.310
Harold Davis: directly involved with the foundation specifically and so having folks really understanding exactly what what is possible in shaping their own ideas as to, you know, what's better than my ideas as well as important for me. So yeah, I'll stop there and

332
00:47:00.840 --> 00:47:02.850
Harold Davis: Hopefully there's some questions here related

333
00:47:06.930 --> 00:47:10.860
Juliet Oberding: I Harold I am definitely I'm interested in hearing what

334
00:47:10.890 --> 00:47:18.180
Juliet Oberding: Progress was since over the summer and what your next steps are. And so I'm really excited to hear about

335
00:47:19.890 --> 00:47:29.010
Juliet Oberding: Where you know the interview with our discussions with Tomas and so please, please let us know. Please keep me in the loop and keep

336
00:47:30.150 --> 00:47:32.160
Juliet Oberding: All of us in the loop. Thank you.

337
00:47:34.080 --> 00:47:34.380
Harold Davis: Thank you.

338
00:47:35.850 --> 00:47:38.310
Jenny Mith: Thanks. Jason actually feel like that.

339
00:47:38.700 --> 00:47:42.360
Jenny Mith: And this might be a good point to explain

340
00:47:43.980 --> 00:47:58.200
Jenny Mith: timeline for working in the weeks in between these meetings. So, Harold. It sounds like you're you're taking the lead on this issue and it's something that we want to stay in the loop on and we in our think yesterday, we're talking about

341
00:47:59.310 --> 00:48:11.010
Jenny Mith: Just like a schedule for action. So, you know, immediately after the meeting, we would send out the agenda for the next meeting, and then a week after that we would ping all the folks in the the working group and ask them to

342
00:48:12.240 --> 00:48:26.370
Jenny Mith: update their issues. So, you know, with your issue number 54 like within the next week, you would add any comments, any questions, any progress that you've made, and you can pay us for feedback as well. But you would do that.

343
00:48:27.450 --> 00:48:34.710
Jenny Mith: A week before the following meeting as a way to keep ourselves accountable. That's what we could talk about right, Jason.

344
00:48:36.120 --> 00:48:39.720
Jenny Mith: And and Harold. Yeah, you're welcome to chime in and let us know if that's a bad idea or not.

345
00:48:40.440 --> 00:48:53.370
Harold Davis: No. Sounds good. Sounds good. And I think you can help facilitate discussion and keep people reminded that we want this discussion to happen. So yeah. Thank you kindly for, you know, laying out that much needed structure.

346
00:48:57.870 --> 00:48:59.820
Jason Schrader: Yeah, and just, just since you asked me directly that

347
00:49:00.360 --> 00:49:02.790
Jason Schrader: That was definitely what we discussed is having this

348
00:49:02.790 --> 00:49:08.250
Jason Schrader: Sort of, since we're doing this two week cadence to have that one week point to be a nice point to

349
00:49:08.640 --> 00:49:15.630
Jason Schrader: Relay either updates about the meeting or updates to issues in general, especially ones that are that are very focused like that one. So,

350
00:49:16.020 --> 00:49:23.220
Jason Schrader: Thank you. Harold for that. And I know, I know. I'm definitely looking forward to tomorrow that definitely clue me in along the way. Or if there's any way I can help you out.

351
00:49:23.640 --> 00:49:31.680
Jason Schrader: And it's been fun looking over both of those topics with you in the past. So I look forward to doing some more and getting that moving again as well.

352
00:49:33.690 --> 00:49:34.710
Harold Davis: Beautiful, beautiful. Thank you.

353
00:49:35.100 --> 00:49:38.100
Harold Davis: Jason and we'll do I'll definitely be reaching out

354
00:49:39.120 --> 00:49:50.970
Harold Davis: To folks interested in and I'll definitely maybe even before that, that, uh, that mid week point be trying to facilitate discussion in the in the in the GitHub.

355
00:49:53.010 --> 00:50:03.960
Harold Davis: But the meetings, I hope, hopefully, at least with people that are familiar. I'll be reaching out very soon. Just to retouch basis and and bring tomasson

356
00:50:08.610 --> 00:50:09.360
Jenny Mith: Well, thanks, Harold.

357
00:50:09.450 --> 00:50:19.260
Jenny Mith: super exciting. And it looks like we're at time and we have a few more discussion items to go over. I don't know how we feel about

358
00:50:20.430 --> 00:50:26.430
Jenny Mith: tabling them for next week, or whether we just want to go over them quickly. I'll default to Jason on that.

359
00:50:27.720 --> 00:50:35.730
Jason Schrader: Well, I can, I can actually spread it real quickly through these, just so we we get them done today. So for the fireside chat series, we talked about, you know, having someone come out.

360
00:50:35.730 --> 00:50:36.510
Jenny Mith: Be a

361
00:50:37.470 --> 00:50:43.380
Jason Schrader: Significant speaker or somebody in the space and it actually just linked that one to the town hall meeting based on the discussion today.

362
00:50:44.070 --> 00:50:50.880
Jason Schrader: So, you know, definitely encourage if anybody has any suggestions or if they want to just comment on what's already in there to take a look at it.

363
00:50:51.450 --> 00:50:57.900
Jason Schrader: Following that one are shared stacks doesn't block stack resources, was that one came from me. It was about how

364
00:50:58.770 --> 00:51:08.730
Jason Schrader: How can we use a block stack ID as a group, and it's a bigger question that I think would be helpful down the road, but nothing that we need to jump into right now.

365
00:51:09.450 --> 00:51:21.390
Jason Schrader: And following that languages and translations. So this was an interesting point that came up out of the survey and we wanted to make sure that we have the broadest reach possible. So, you know, just using English as a language.

366
00:51:21.840 --> 00:51:31.290
Jason Schrader: We're definitely missing out on some possibilities there. So that's more of a just a reminder, as we to do different things to consider languages and translations, as we go along.

367
00:51:31.860 --> 00:51:40.260
Jason Schrader: And then finally, the last one on the list, we were going to establish this community observer role for the original research calls around governance and

368
00:51:40.650 --> 00:51:47.610
Jason Schrader: We've talked about closing it out once or twice the feeling was that it needed to be left open or it needs to be ratified as an actual action item.

369
00:51:48.060 --> 00:51:56.010
Jason Schrader: So that's why it still sits on the list. Today I do welcome everybody look at it would be good to see if it's still relevant to what we're thinking or if we need to.

370
00:51:56.670 --> 00:52:00.390
Jason Schrader: Move it more towards like the community board seat idea or something like that.

371
00:52:01.020 --> 00:52:09.180
Jason Schrader: But that would be just a quick overview of what each of those is and of course it anytime anybody is welcome to jump into these issues to make comments.

372
00:52:09.450 --> 00:52:20.130
Jason Schrader: Or ping me on discord and I can add it to the issue we just really want to keep things out in the open. Keep people aware and give as many possibilities for people to contribute, where possible,

373
00:52:24.960 --> 00:52:26.070
Phillip Roe: The list is very

374
00:52:26.130 --> 00:52:27.480
Jason Schrader: Useful so we

375
00:52:27.510 --> 00:52:28.410
Phillip Roe: Have to maintain that

376
00:52:36.120 --> 00:52:50.970
Jenny Mith: Great. Alright. Thanks everybody. And this has been a great and productive meeting. I personally really liked the format of it. Are there any burning questions or comments that we want to address before we end this week's meeting.

377
00:52:56.520 --> 00:53:02.160
Phillip Roe: Yeah, just one question, Jenny. Um, I saw some

378
00:53:06.660 --> 00:53:09.360
Phillip Roe: Something that was written in inside the

379
00:53:10.560 --> 00:53:22.770
Phillip Roe: The node. When you start a software. There are some rules of conduct and it looks like they can from some other source that is the open source community, something like that.

380
00:53:24.780 --> 00:53:27.780
Phillip Roe: That was some, something we agreed to handle

381
00:53:30.090 --> 00:53:40.980
Jenny Mith: I think that that that standard code of conduct is is the same across the repos, at least for all the blocks back repo. So it may have been inherited

382
00:53:41.340 --> 00:53:47.130
Jenny Mith: From that, but I actually think that that's one of the reasons we. One of the reasons that motivated

383
00:53:47.550 --> 00:53:58.950
Jenny Mith: They can't be both code of conduct. So writing one that's more specific to the community. The if you're seeing like a very standard one. It's just been inherited from the other block staff repose. Yeah.

384
00:54:00.270 --> 00:54:06.570
Phillip Roe: Yes. So that's something that we have to address them before before everything before main net

385
00:54:08.160 --> 00:54:24.750
Phillip Roe: You know, because that get that is getting distributed everywhere, and we should, if it's not bad as it is a good one, but still have to make sure that we is following our, our guidelines or our vision of this

386
00:54:27.510 --> 00:54:38.040
Jason Schrader: I definitely agree with you fill up so the one that's there now is based on the contributor covenant which is just a sort of generalized one and I know we've talked about this a little bit on calls before

387
00:54:38.400 --> 00:54:44.460
Jason Schrader: But I also agree that, you know, by developing this can't be evil code of conduct, we're going to be setting a real standard

388
00:54:44.790 --> 00:54:50.820
Jason Schrader: For for everything that's going on around here and as well as a nice guideline for people coming into the space to

389
00:54:51.180 --> 00:55:04.050
Jason Schrader: Learn more about what it truly means to be part of this ecosystem. And I think a lot of us will where we find our camaraderie is in the values that we share together. So I'm on board with you on that. I'm definitely excited and I think that's part of what's coming up next.

390
00:55:07.230 --> 00:55:20.760
Jenny Mith: So some insight knowledge and Alex, who's the decks liaison for blocks at PC has been doing a ton of work on the docks and we talked about developing better contributing guidelines for

391
00:55:21.180 --> 00:55:34.110
Jenny Mith: For GitHub and I sent him some examples. And he said he's just getting started on outlining that but I assume that would be a very community oriented process, given that there's a doc channel in discord now and

392
00:55:34.770 --> 00:55:48.960
Jenny Mith: There's a lot of planning to have like a docs hack week so that's potentially an area that you could get involved to fill up if you feel passionate about drafting better contributing guidelines. I know I do. I don't think the ones that we have now are very good.

393
00:55:50.790 --> 00:55:51.240
Jenny Mith: Okay.

394
00:55:52.350 --> 00:55:59.190
Jenny Mith: All right. Well, on that note, thank you everybody for a great meeting and we will talk in two weeks.

395
00:56:02.970 --> 00:56:03.360
Phillip Roe: Yeah.

396
00:56:05.640 --> 00:56:05.940
Jason Schrader: Thank you.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
