# 20200720 Governance Working Group Call 20

Summary of call from @ryanarndtcm

- The Stacks Foundation will have a small staff with the goal is to help empower other working groups/communities to do that which supports the mission of the Foundation.
- The Stacks Foundation could encourage publishing of certain ideas - but does not want to be the sole carrier of the mission. Policies will need to align in that area, but the onus will not be on the Foundation alone. It's not top down but more like feeding the grassroots. It is also still early days in the creation of the organization.
- The Governance Working Group will act independently of the Stacks Foundation or Blockstack PBC.
- The Governance Working group will act as an independent advocate for the broader community, but will need more data (surveys etc) and community involvement to do so.  
- The Governance Working Group will apply for a grant related to specific tasks.
- The grant program gives transparency and accessibility as well as get more involvement and buy in from community
- Collections is very important to the broader community and to the sustainability of web 3.  Radiks/collections will likely be on the first grant.
- Another possible area is to help give developers guidance on writing their dapps for privacy - re: [privacy shield ruling](https://www.wired.co.uk/article/privacy-shield-ruling)
- Grants could be approached in a number of ways, Lane suggested that 1) the Governance Working Group could apply for own grant. 2) GWG could apply for a "meta-grant" to give grants to others 3) GWG could be part of the grant approval process
- Grants could have 3 month goals working with community directly - if goals were met - more funding could be applied to/accessed. This grant time limit will keep the working group accountable, independent, and focused on community goals.
- The grant process will be starting roll out soon (around August 3rd, 2020) via grants.io and will start with amounts less than USD$5000.
- GWG will have access to a draft of the application to prepare in advance of the launch. The created grant will act as a beta test of the application and approval process.
- Meetings will continue, though the timing may change. Lane is sending out a form for attendees to complete to help organize a best time going forward. The goal going forward will to be to allow easier access for people around the world.
- Jenny will start a shared document to help manage potential grant ideas asynchronously as 10ET is very early for some attendees. Asynchronous work will help manage that challenge with action items discussed on calls, and subpoints worked on async.

-----

Edited transcript from Zoom

Jenny: Alright. Hey, everybody. So we are recording now. Thank you for joining in a different time than we normally do. And the purpose of today's group is to… or today's meeting is to do a little bit of a retro on what this working group has been working together for the past couple of months and to figure out how we want to operate moving forward. And we’ll be considering questions like our relationship to the Foundation and you know, how independently, we'd like to operate and how we want to support our goals moving forward as a community group. So we have that all detailed in an agenda. Thank you. Brittany for putting that on GitHub. I’m going to share my screen. Take a loo. Hey, Harold. All right. Okay  How's everyone doing first of all?

Lane Rettig: Regular Monday morning still booting up, how's everyone else doing.

Jenny: Same. I was just saying that to Brittany.

Juliet Oberding: I'm half asleep.

Lane Rettig: Yeah, yeah. I feel for you folks on the west coast.

Jenny: Yeah, the only person who's figured it out is Jason who is up so early and just operates as though he's on West… on East Coast time even though he's on the west coast.

Jason Schrader: Yeah, I'll admit I'm lagging a little bit today too, but, um, but I'm here and I think that 

Jenny: Okay. All right.

Lane Rettig: Jason, you need more coffee. That's the secret.

Jason Schrader: There you go. Yeah, you're right, it's only cup number two, not number 10.

Jenny: Okay, well, um I wouldn't recommend having that much coffee. Anyway, beyond that, we'll get into our discussion topics. So yeah, like I mentioned earlier, and I think that this this idea for a retro came up because we all seem to want to get more aligned on what our focus is and goals are. And we also want to figure out the best ways for us to work together, moving forward. I know that we've been pretty consistent about our meetings every Wednesday for the past few months, and I know that folks like Jason have done a ton of work in refining our standard operating procedures and making all of our work really accessible to the broader community, which is great. But especially as we look ahead of or ahead of Stacks U [<unknown] in like looking after that. I think that there's a lot of scope for this working group to take the lead on very important community issues. And I think there's some unresolved questions about, you know, how we want to go about tackling those issues and what our relationship would be like with the Foundation, as you know, sort of a supporting institution and not necessarily like a member of the working group. 

Jenny: So, under discussion topics you know we had a few very basic discussion topics lives listed so you know things like potential new meeting times and and you know how we want to work together, but also some deeper considerations as well. So, you know, what are the most impactful community issues that we can work on. I know that all of us are really passionate about acting as a voice for the broader blockstack or stacks community and, you know, what do we need for that to be productive. Is it funding? And is it, you know, other tools for this group tomorrow to work more effectively? And so with that I'm going to open up the floor to other members and just get your thoughts on all of that. Any thoughts.

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I'm happy to jump in. And so I think like the getting setup of the foundation was a huge undertaking of this this group. And I think that that's been really great. I think the thing that I imagine like going forward is, you know, how does the governance working group, you know, set initiatives, be able to you know, come up with ways to support different needs in the community. And then, you know, can always approach the Foundation with those things, but that the group feels like it's an independent group and not just necessarily a auxiliary group to the Foundation. Because I think as we grow the initiatives under the Foundation, this group will you know, I want it to be like a community entity that communities can come to and interact with and engage with around specific governance questions, around the support of different technologies, and and that you know may or may not require you know the Foundation's input. So like how to make it feel like it truly belongs to the community and the way that it's organized. 

Brittany Laughlin: I also see that this could be a good transition point because very soon we're launching our grants program. And so with that, you know, potentially obtaining a grant for this group. So like self organized community working and have different initiatives and then being able to apply for, you know, potential funding through the Foundation grants program in order to pursue different you know directives or or supporting different Community initiatives. Things like - and Jenny and I talked a little bit about this before, but like, you know, I think that there's a growing voice from the community around, you know, what does like Radex [<unknown] support look like and and how does that get managed within the community. And I think that that's like an interesting governance question that this group could work on. In addition to things like, you know, our focus on privacy and why that's important and how that manifests either within our community or externally. How do we support that? I think that's a really interesting governance question that can be taken on as well. So that's a lot of thoughts but that's where my head is at, but I'm open to you know if people have completely different ideas surrounding just this group in general and like what they want to see is it shorter meetings, longer meetings,  more meetings, whatever. That's also a topic that Jenny brought up.

Lane Rettig: Thank you, Brittany. Thank you Jenny. Yeah. Just, just two quick thoughts from my side. The first is that I guess I'm feeling a lack of clarity on the delineation between the role and responsibilities that are in the wheelhouse of the Foundation relative to other stuff - the working group. And that could be a positive list, it could be a negative list, right? It could be like Foundation does ABC, Working Group does you know DEF. It could be Foundation does everything except, you know, Q, R, and F or something. There's different ways that could be structured. So that's the first point I wanted to make. It's a bit difficult to respond to the question without having more clarity on that. 

Lane Rettig: And the second one is like I have always viewed the working group as a conduit for the needs of the broader community and Brittany, I think you spoke to this really well just now. I was gonna say it's not sort of clear to me what needs the community has, what preferences they have. Obviously the survey helped a bit, but I think there's still a lot of work to be done there. And and I think that the examples you gave just now, Brittany, around things like privacy… And sorry, I'm having a total brain freeze here. What was the other example? 

Brittany: Radix [<unknown]. Yeah, just collections. 

Lane Rettig: Yes. Exactly right. You've mentioned Radix [<unknown]. That's a great example. So like those are two concrete things that I think that this group could choose to tackle if they wanted to. And I wonder what else is on that list.

Jenny: Yeah, to that point, Lane, I think, the your question around the delineation between the Foundation and the working group has been, I feel like it's maybe the area in which we get stuck. But seeing is how this is a community Working Group, I don't, I don't see why this I don't see what would stop this group from just from asking for whatever it is that the community needs. Right. I think that you know, when we talk about Radix [<unknown] that is something that is a big blocker for our app developers who make up a huge part of our community. And to me, that is, that's a governance issue, right? If we are, if there's a tool that is blocking community members from being productive or being effective in the work they want to do, especially as it really relates to the the wider work they want to do on privacy, then that is that falls under the umbrella of the kind of work that the governance working group can do. 

Jenny: So in my mind, what I envision the future of this relationship looking like is with something like the Grants Program. The Foundation would obviously have a process set up to allocate grant money, but as far as like, you know, making the case for needing that kind of funding to support Community initiatives, the, I see the working group as having a lot more leverage because this working group represents the you know the community. It is the voice of the community. And if it requires like more work in the area of talking to community members or, you know, doing another survey or like doing focus groups to really understand what the community needs to function the way that it wants to. Then I see this group, taking the lead on that kind of work and letting the Foundation know like, hey, this is, this is the pulse of the community. This is what people need, and, and, like, here are the ways in which you can support. Here's how we're going to propose that you can do it. And here are the ways that we think are, here are the ways that we think are going to promote equity and productivity in the community. And you know, it would be hard for the Foundation to disagree with a lot of that, given that this group is very representative of what the community wants and what the community thinks. That's how I see the evolution sort of playing out.

Juliet Oberding: I would agree with with Jenny and Brittany in everything that's been said. Before, before this moment, before I opened my mouth. But I, I also think that we need more community. We definitely need more interaction with the community and having our pulse on what the community's needs are. You mentioned Radix - I would prefer to call it “collections”, because not everybody wants to use or likes the Radix product. Let's put it that way. But, and I know that Friedeger [<unknown] and Tanya [<unknown] and Dan have all been talking about collections from some, for some months. And that's sort of gone by the wayside. But that's something that's extremely important from an app development perspective - to be able to share information without sharing information, so to speak. There's the complete privacy block of the information of the individual user, but you still have, they have, they can take their information from each app. It provides a better experience for the user overall. 

Juliet Oberding: But so without getting into the technical stuff… I do have, I know I talked with Jenny about this, I do would like to see more community involvement and more of our involvement taking on specific projects. And I think all of you have spoken to projects that we can start moving forward on. I like the idea of being able to support the community in grants. Because I've heard from the from community members about you know what, how can we get grants for work that we're creating for the overall community that will move things forward, whether it's in collections or in in other areas. So I think being able to support community members and be a, perhaps an advocate is what I'm hearing in my head right now. I think those things are important. 

Juliet Oberding: I think it's important for us to have our own within… there's the charter of the Foundation, but our own charter as community members, our own mission. And I know that I've talked with, I've talked to Dan and I've talked to Jenny about the, the idea that one of our key ethos as as a community that for me is different from other blockchain communities is this. I mean, it's not completely different, but there's a real focus here on “Can't be evil,” on privacy, on a user-owned internet, all of those things and and those that that's something that needs to be part of our own mission statement - as our own charter - as a working group - our own what what our Foundation is, and then somehow we as a working group handle these different issues. What, what steps to take. And I think Lane and Jason have done incredible work that's going to set us up for the next for moving forward, and I agree with Brittany, that this is kind of the tipping point right now where we can start taking over.. or not ‘taking over’, but start you know, working with the community on different projects. So that's my thoughts for today. So thanks.

Jenny: Thanks, Juliet. I also agree with everything that he said right up until I opened my mouth. Thank you for for just summing up all all that up really nicely. I think I'm, what is exciting about the possibility of this group applying for a grant is your number one: being able to operate very independently and and efficiently and sufficiently. And also maybe he be more bias toward action, which is like a very strong value, I think, in the community and you know, on the blockstack team. So you talk about ways that we’re different, you know, when, would we write our own charter? I think it's probably in, I think you would probably be impossible to write a charter now that would encapsulate everything that we stand for or want to do. And it would probably take a few - well, in my opinion, I think it would take a few iterations of like working with the community and seeing what our dynamic is and what the needs of Community actually are before you know we have an established charter in place. 

Jenny: But that being said, with a grant, I think the beauty of of that is that we could apply or we could you know put together proposal, saying, you know, these are the things that this group wants to, wants to work on. This is what we stand for. You know, one of our biggest priorities is promoting and enforcing the privacy in the technology that we build and these are, these are the things that we want to get done in the next three months. So, you know, Radix and collections being one of them. So, you know, this group would oversee a bounty, for example, for Radix and collections and we would be responsible for, you know, onboarding or recruiting developers who could help us figure that out and you know the other things that we can be responsible for are, you know, more like educational content around privacy centric applications or you know more more standards around our, you know, our open source projects or just or open source standards.

Jenny: I know we've talked about contributing guidelines on GitHub, for example. So there are a few deliverables that this group could definitely be responsible for and we can hold ourselves accountable by applying for grants saying like, “For the next three months. This is what we want to do we want to take the lead on this. But we are you know working directly with community and we're, we're here to represent what community wants and, you know, should we deliver on X Y & Z we would apply for like continued funding.” 

Jenny: And yeah, I can see that grant money going toward bounties, like I mentioned. It can also go toward meetings - so like I know that you and I talked about this Juliet, but it's great to have these really productive working group sessions where we all have coffee or lunch together. I don't see why, you know, a grant shouldn't go toward that either. So I just think that like the vision for me is very clear when we we like grants become part of the picture.

Juliet Oberding: I just think Jenny, that brings a sense of camaraderie for people sitting with their coffee or their Starbucks or whatever, when we you know,,, Like we did with the women's meeting of which was only there for short part, but it made you feel really connected with each other. And and and having that camaraderie connection I think is important when you're working closely on important issues so. It's a side issue, I guess

Jenny: Yeah, absolutely. And this work is time consuming and I think that we shouldn't underestimate the amount of effort that's going to need to go into relationship building with community, right? So, our group is one sliver of the community. There are so many other sub groups that we need to get to know better in order to get a real read on the needs of community. So, you know, we might write a proposal where we outline three deliverables that we want to get done in the next three months and then we show it to community and everyone's like, no, we don't want that. So I think, I think what I'm trying to stress is like the grant process holds us accountable in applying and submitting a proposal and, you know, being very public about what we say we want to do for community. And I think that's actually one way to get more more involvement from community as well.

Harold Davis: Yeah, I was just thinking about that, that last point as well. Um, it's exciting to hear all this discussion about collections as I've noticed as well, you know, and learned a lot about how focused and how important collections is to the to the broader community. But also learning things about how important you know restructuring the way data is collected going forward, right, and how important that is to the long term sustainability of web three and blockchain-based systems in general, which is also something fundamental to The things that I put forward here in this working group. 

Harold Davis: And so it really seems like there can be a two way conversation – a dialogue created between, you know, developers, folks in data, with you know collections as that, as that a platform for that discussion. And it can be, you know, a tangible discussion, you know - spitting things out as, as the discussion happens, you know. And so it, um, it seems like a very, you know, critical point where there can start to be some you know, interaction as Julia says, right between the product community and in the governance working group. 

Harold Davis: Because it feels like data can be thought of in a system design approach and then really, you can really address some, you know, some of the fundamental things about long term sustainability. When you, when you try to you know sow the seeds for what can turn into a better ecosystem of data than what we have now - which if we don't address it, right, in the beginning years of these blockchain based systems, we can just have the same ecosystem that [during the New Year][<unknown] talks about leak into the next iteration of the Internet. 

Harold Davis: But it also seems like, you know, important distributions of distributed power dynamics can be built into the systems approaches to data. And so yes, it's exciting to hear this discussion come up here and it's something that we're hopefully trying to contribute a piece to in the kernel [<unknown] project that we're thankful for opportunity for. But yeah, so the the grants, being able to you know, going to priorities like that for this governance working group that can kind of enable folks that come into the ecosystem or folks that are already in the ecosystem to to build in a way of long term sustainability. It sounds like a beautiful idea and sounds beautiful that we'd be able to allocate resources: people or funding, right? Myself ‘people’ is a lot more valuable in a lot of ways. So I know that the grants can attract the people. So that's a, that's a beautiful thing.

Juliet Oberding: I just wanted to follow up on what Harold said because it made me think of a conversation and, and what's come up recently and privacy. So, one way or one possible thing that we can do and I'm just throwing out ideas here, so not saying that it's something that I think we have to do or, or anything like that, is that recently, we had the Schrems case and the privacy shield issues which isn't really a problem for any developers on our platform. But still, they'll want to have guidance. You know, guidance when they're developing apps with respect to the, you know, how do they, you know, go about writing their.... I'm not talking. I'm just talking about here's what the, you know, some guidance from the governance group regarding privacy matters that are coming up in, in the greater wide world. So that there is some guidance for them about those particular privacy issues. And then even the privacy shield ruling that came up last week that's extremely important, I think, for everyone to, to that type of thing that impacts worldwide whether none of us are collecting any data in our applications, it's still important for us to have some consideration of how to interact with those larger world structures.

Lane Rettig: Juliet, I'm actually not familiar with what you're talking about. Would you mind just briefly introducing this privacy shield idea.

Juliet Oberding: Okay, so there's been since the mid 90s. I think I can't remember, but it's been a long time that there was a concept of privacy shield in the United States. And there was a way that you could, working through the FTC even and through various private organizations, be able to protect your, your company and say that you took all the… other than your terms and conditions and anything that's on your website, or your applications, or any of your products, that you are meeting all the requirements with respect to privacy. And it's, it's an organization that would essentially validate that you were, you were doing X particular steps with respect to privacy. And so now that's been struck down. 

Juliet Oberding: And what that means is there's going to be a lot more heavy lifting that individual corporations or entities will have to do with respect to data that they use from the EU. The US and other companies from others outside of the EU will have to do with respect to when they have EU community members or citizens on their applications or products or what have you, where data is flowing from the EU citizens into a US company's product. So there, there's a kind of a really lame description, but it's, it kind of gives you that it gives you the general idea. 

Juliet Oberding: There's a there's a case that went through the Court of Justice on, I think it was Thursday the ruling came down. And since then I, there have been a number of webinars and such like multiple on the day of the ruling and Friday through the International Association of Privacy Professionals, which is a body that certifies people for to be privacy professionals. But they've done, there's been so much discussion and talk amongst lawyers and privacy professionals and still going on to this moment about how will that impact us - and ‘us’ being companies that have a data flow from EU to US or or other countries. So that's… and I haven't gotten into the nitty gritty details of the of the ruling, I know, but it's a major, it's going to have a major impact. And probably this is where we're seeing more US universal privacy laws being enacted or data-related laws being enacted. As you know, we've heard some over the last year, and even before that, that there's been pressure to have US more like the know the CPA and California. That there’ll be much more regulation coming down. For privacy from a Federal level as opposed to just to state-wide State level. Does that answer your question? 

Lane Rettig: Yes. Thank you. Privacy is… Privacy is very important.

Jenny: Thanks for sharing that, Juliet and thanks Harold as well. I'll let my partner now that we're talking about privacy shield. He'll be so excited. But yeah. So are you, are you saying that these kinds of rulings will obviously impact those in our community? And are you saying that these are the kinds of issues that this group would also be or could be responsible for, I guess being, staying up to date on and and being ahead on, in order to advise and assist community members who might be impacted by these policy changes?

Juliet Oberding: I think that's an interesting question, because I would forsee that the Foundation would be like the source of, of you know, the information and education regarding these types of rulings and how they impact developers in the community. And so, so I do, so that's, it's an interesting question because then what is the role of the working group. I mean, if the, if the, if the like, if the Foundation is the entity that talks about impact of privacy, education, and things like that around development and, and then these, these I'll call them ‘side issues’, of, you know, legislation that comes down the pike that can potentially impact developers. And then what does the working group do with that?

Juliet Oberding: And I just see the, us as, as really supporting that same mission. If the Foundation is the, sort of the real mouthpiece of, you know what, what are we, what are the privacy concerns in our community? And how does this impact us? Then the working group should be supporting the community members in some way. Whether that is to create guidance, you know, working with the Foundation to create value. And this is just one of many things. Because we can talk about it from privacy perspective and this new case because it's something tangible, but there's so many ways that when we talk about education that we could be working hand in hand with the Foundation to support Community members from a guidance or educational perspective. So, from supporting them with grants... So that's, that's basically where I am. 

Jenny: Thank you, Brittany. Is there anything that you, you already know about the Foundation's role in those kinds of policy issues or or not yet? I mean, we're just getting up and running, so I'm assuming, like, not everything is figured out yet. 

Juliet Oberding: Yeah, yeah. Not everything is figured out yet. But yeah, I think you know as, the long view of the Foundation is it will probably continue to be a very small like quote unquote staff and so our goal is to be able to help like empower different groups, different organizations, different like working groups, committees to be able to get important work done that supports the mission. And so it's like we can help amplify and you know, direct resources like whether that's, you know, funding more research towards certain ideas or you know, encouraging publishing of certain ideas, or groups to take on these different challenges. But I think it is one of these like a little mix of like - we don't want to be the sole carrier of that mission. We want to like find like the 1,000 or 10,000 people that we can support who are helping that mission. And that's how we really scale and grow. 

Juliet Oberding: So I do believe like the policies will need to be aligned with the mission. And we have some, you know, we do have a voice like have feedback on that and kind of direct resources, depending on where we think that's happening. But it's, you know, some onus is on individuals or collectives of people to kind of scope out what exactly those policies look like and how they think they could be implemented or how they should be implemented, and then we can help greenlight stuff, but maybe not like we're dictating down what should be done and then the community kind of accepts it - it's more trying to feed the grassroots. If that makes sense. So that's, that's the way I envisioned it and I, you know, It's still early days though so that’s not in stone yet either.

Jenny: I like that what you said about feeding the grass roots, Brittany. That makes sense to me. So, um, if there aren’t any further comments on, on the how the working group would, or what the working group would like to tackle and on the grant idea. I'm wondering whether it would be good for us to talk about the like how we want to start working on that. So, and it's that, it sounds like the grant ideas, totally, like, we totally have the green light on that something that we can apply for. Is there a platform for that yet, Brittany?

Brittany Laughlin: So, coming soon we, I just started working with grant.io who built like an open source software platform. That will help like have a platform so people can apply for grant. And so their delivery, delivery date is within like the next two weeks. And so with that, it's basically a website where people can input their grant proposal, they can get feedback on their ideas, people can comment in the community. Um, so with that, coming up so quickly, I think that this would be a great group to kind of like help you know beta test that by you know obviously going through the grant process for like a real grant that they want to propose, but also on helping to kind of guinea pig. Just making sure that at all, it all works and it all makes sense.

Lane Rettig: I’ve a question about the grant process. I mean, I'm sure I've said this before, I think it's a great starting point. I think it's a very concrete deliverable. I think it's something where this group could add value right out of the gate. But I think there's a couple ways it could work logistically, right. So, and I'm just a little unclear on kind of what, what Jenny and Brittany what you're conceiving of here. One way is like what you just mentioned, Brittany, which is like we as a group apply for a grant with some specific set of deliverables and a roadmap and all that. I think that makes sense and it's probably worth doing, although we have to figure out what you know what, what the usage of funds would be. There's a second path, which is kind of like this group applies for a, like a “meta grant” for lack of a better word, and then intends to kind of like give some of that funding out to other projects as grants or as sub-grants. And then there's like a third way of looking at it, which is that this group could help steward the grant process, right, help kind of projects or teams apply for grants, help them prepare for that process, help them get their kind of application in order. Maybe even help review the applications, but then the like final decision would be in the hands of the Foundation. So there’s just different paths forward. I'm kind of wondering where you're at on those options.

Jenny: I was thinking strictly of number one, at least for the short the short term. So, in… a few reasons for that. So there are outstanding issues that I think that we as a community group know exist - that we, we want to tackle. And I think the progress on those issues has been slow and they are also fundamentally, you know, governance related issues and we talked about things like Radix and collections. And so, applying for grants ourselves would empower us to work on those, those issues. And, you know, come up with solutions for them and actually deliver that for the community. And I think that you know that is to Juliet’s point, Juliet often talks about serving the community and being a voice for the community. And I think that it would be really meaningful for us to start off that way. After that first period, of course, I think that there is scope for using grants in many different ways. So this group could potentially become a group that helps other, other projects apply for grants or, you know, allocate funding ourselves. I don't, I don't know whether we would feel comfortable doing that. But maybe that's how the group would evolve. 

Jenny: But yeah, in my mind, I was strictly looking at the first option: applying for a grant ourselves to fund some work that we would like to get done in the next three to six months or so. Sort of going off, going off of that work. So, you know, depending on how well we do there, maybe we would continue to apply for grants. Brittany mentioned that some projects do you like a monthly grant and that is in, that actually addresses some of the concerns that I've heard other community members have. So, you know, like I've talked to Dan about this group and I think the the issue of like term limits came up, right? So we could, this group could have a symbolic power. But if the group isn't actually, you know, producing the work, then who holds them accountable for that. And I think that by, you know, having to reapply for a grant on like a quarterly basis or so, that a grant that is based on the kind of work that we're promising to deliver is, that would hold us more accountable to the community. Yeah, so that's where my head was at.

Lane Rettig: Makes sense. Thank you.

Jenny: Did any, did anyone else have a different idea, of how grants would be used and applied?

Harold Davis: What you just mentioned made sense; it seems great.

Jenny: Great. I guess, well, I mean, that's really exciting first of all. Because we’ve just been talking about grants for a while, I ok… 

Jenny: So I guess like the next word for business and we have, we have about 15 minutes but it's talking about how we would like to work moving forward. So if, if our biggest issue here is that you know, we, as a group, need to submit a proposal for a grant - I'm assuming that all of our you know upcoming meetings would be around that - so putting our heads together to figure out what we want to put in that proposal. And, and Brittany once that platform is ready, I think there will probably be more guidance on the formatting of our proposal too, right?

Brittany Laughlin: Yes, definitely. Yeah, so that's part of the launch in the, in the work that's getting done, so. And, and I think we talked about this, another governance call, which is sort of setting expectations. So the goal is to have sort of a, like a beta grants program - work grants will be in smaller size, so you can apply for grant up to like 5K is probably going to be the amount. So that means like either scoping your project to that amount or if it's like you know, once you hit certain milestones, you can have additional funding. So just trying to keep with like that - start very small, but get the process working and then once we know that the process is working well, we can you know sort of ramp up like the size of grants and things that over time.

Jenny: Okay.Thanks for that.

Jenny: And Lane, Jason, you've done a lot of work on our, just on the way that we work. So, and I wanted to get your thoughts on how, what still needs to be done there and how we want to balance that with this grant proposal that this group will now work on. Whether like that, that working in maintaining our repo and all of our tools should go into the proposal as well. Like as something that we want to treat as a deliverable so that other community members understand how to get involved too. What are your thoughts there?

Lane Rettig: Jason, I'd love to let you jump in here. First, if you're able to speak right now.

Jason Schrader: Yeah, definitely. So as I'm as I'm listening along, you know, I feel like definitely the biggest part I've been able to play in all this is just helping with that organization and structure. And I do feel like at this point we, we want to find a way to make this something that anybody could approach, anybody can pick it up, and anybody can do it. So it's not reliant just on on myself or somebody else or, or anything like that. So when we're looking at, you know, this, this whole process and the early stages of the grants and a little bit of what I had put in some of the issues towards having like small bounties or some sort of budget towards completing tasks, I do feel like our first steps will be in this beta process, learning how to apply that together. So, you know, do we say, hey, we have a certain budget for notes updates, for examples, following meetings? Or just how I can better help organize and structure things is more what I'm trying to key into as part of this conversation.

Lane Rettig: So I agree with Jason, unsurprisingly. I just wanted to add that we've done quite a bit of the style of stuff that he's describing in Etherium, in some of the groups I've been a part of there, and it's worked pretty well. One concrete example of this is Gitcoin. I'm not sure how many of you are familiar with the website or with the organization, but they facilitate bounties attached to things like GitHub issues that can be paid out in multiple cryptocurrencies etc, so there's, there's some established practice here that we can turn to.

Jenny: Yeah, definitely. And I think that Gitcoin model has its had some issues with them, our community members. But overall, people seem to really enjoyed that. So, um yeah, it could be a case of us sort of downloading all of the, all the work that you Jason has done for example and surfacing the areas that still need help and attaching bounties to, to those areas if… Am I hearing you correctly, Jason in that interpretation.

Jason Schrader: Both in that and in regular things moving forward. Like, for example, on our agenda here. We talked about, like, what would, what are the different community roles that could be assumed without having too much complexity or requiring too much from any one actor. But when we look at somebody who's going to take notes or publish related items or, you know, what are the actionable items that something could be tied to. So it's a you get your value back out of the, the time spent because time is that that one resource that we all only have so much of but at the same time, you know, we're here because we love this idea. We're here because we want to represent the community, and it would be nice just to bring that full circle and give some value back from the project as well. So just trying to figure out how those things tie together and to complete those smaller action items.

Jenny: Got it, okay. Okay, so as a next step I, this, this was, you know, this call is scheduled so that we would have most of the time to talk about these issues, but we do have our regular Working Group calls as well. Does anyone have any major opinions on changing the time of our meeting, changing the frequency of our meetings, and how we structure those meetings as well?

Lane Rettig: I just want to add one very quick thought, which is that I think regularity is important I think. Even if not a lot is getting done on the calls, even just the check-in, ther going over the list of things - having that on a sort of quote unquote official record. I think that that's really valuable for the community as a, as a kind of permanent resource and as a foundation upon which you know kind of transparent accountable governance can be built.

Jenny: Yeah, agreed. Thanks, Lane.

Juliet Oberding: I also agree with Lane. I do, I have this urgent request that we not have it at 10am Eastern Time.

[various laughter]

Brittany Laughlin: More people can attend

Lane Rettig: Just to throw an idea out here. Some, sometimes at this point in a conversation like this will try to pick a better time and in my experience, that's very difficult because there's a lot of variables floating around. Maybe we just do the simplest possible thing and we circulate like a doodle or something and everyone can just fill in the times that they're available and we pick the one that everyone's available the most. Just a thought.

Jenny: Yeah, don't see an issue that; we could totally do that. 

Lane Rettig: I will circulate that today. 

Jenny: Thanks, Lane. Yeah, it always gets tricky when we get folks involved from just even, you know, when folks are like 12 hours ahead, so you know this is going to be an ongoing issue. But for now, and we can cater to this particular group’s interests or preferences.

[overlapping]: Well, that… is there…

Juliet Oberding: Oh, sorry, Jason. Is there a I know, I know there's like a standard time that is that may be good for everybody, whether you're wherever you... I mean, there's always going to be a problem with, with certain time zones, but is there one good time that, that you found that, that Lane, but you found or that anyone's found that is a good time for meetings in the morning. For that, so we could get participation from people and other places. I just wondered about that because I think Brittany brought that up too.

Lane Rettig: If I mean this is pretty, pretty straightforward. If you want to be available to as broad a swath of people as possible it inevitably ends up at 10 or 11 o'clock, New York Time. That's the only option because that's already that's, that's, that's midnight in Japan. That's like you know 2am in Australia. Now, if we're trying to focus more regionally and say, okay, we're trying to, you know, focus on North America, South America, we have more flexibility. There's two other options. Right. One is that we have two different calls. We have one for one set of time zones, one for another. And the third possibility is that we rotate and we've done all of these things and like  Etherium and core devs and we landed back on a single time slot every two weeks, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't experiment.

Jenny: Yeah, I would, I would lean towards sort of catering to this group since we do show up, to our meetings consistently and yeah, pick a time based on the doodle that Lane sends out. I find that I'm also pretty meeting-free after noon for my time which is after 9am for Juliet. So there's probably a time in there that that would work for you or that is comfortable. But moving forward, this will definitely continue to be an issue and you know, we're, we're a global community and we also believe in decentralization. So the hope there is that, you know, our working group grows to to the size where there are, you know, multiple leaders in different regions. And we could have, we could do our work asynchronously and trust that other leaders and other regions are, you know, tackling the same issues that we're tackling and that we're all we're all aligned across our work streams. I think that we can sort of get to that bridge - we can cross that bridge when we get to it. But it's something to keep in mind. I think we do, I think it is important to be inclusive of, of all the community members involved.

Lane Rettig: Jenny. I agree. One more super quick thought, which is that we talked about doing these town hall type things. And so those can, those are another option and the bridge right? Those can be held at different times that work better for people in different places or something.

Jenny: Yeah, certainly. We yeah we do the BlockStack town halls are always at 10. And when I was in California for four months, that was awful for me. We got so much part… We got so much attendance because that time just works for so many different people. So, but if you know, if you're doing it once a month, It's not an issue. Whereas you know for us if we're meeting weekly or even bi-weekly. It can be a little tough. Yeah, that's another option to consider just to even summarize our work .

Jenny: And we all talked about, you know, being able to work asynchronously more and as this group grows and we start to tackle different work streams… So Juliet, I know that you and I have talked about this - they're just, they're few different work streams that we’re, they’re, that we're working on. And I think that it's probably sufficient to have like a project management board or you know to do updates over email on, on some work streams, but to come together on you know some major work streams. So you know the, the example being whatever we commit to in our proposal. So let's say there are, there are three major deliverables. Those would be the issues that we would try to meet about regularly. And any sort of sub work streams or issues, we could report on asynchronously, either in discord or on over email or forum or wherever we choose on GitHub.

Jason Schrader: Yes, definitely. I agree with that and I think you hit the nail on the head with the asynchronous part. That's something that we definitely have touched on before and I think as we expand and as we plan for this to be a larger group, it's going to be necessary for anything to progress and get done. And I also think it gives that that ability to split things up. You know, I think of the, like the community evangelists call where we have one, one time set for here and one time set for Asia. But the work that the group does is all cohesive as well and can be considered together. And then to Lane’s point too, you know, the consistency - it really is key as well to say like, “Hey, you know, we have a list of issues or a list of set projects or deliverables. Here's where we get together, we discussed where we're at. We get a chance to voice any blockers and we get to keep moving.” But the majority of the action could happen asynchronously versus having to focus on that part on the call.

Jenny: Yeah, definitely. Okay, so just have a couple minutes left, so I, as a next step Lane, you're going to send out that doodle. And we're going to pick a new time. It can, could, it could be the same time, but we're going to pick a time to stick with for our next meeting. Do we feel like we should meet again this week, or do we want to take this week to process? And actually, maybe this is an opportunity to do some work asynchronously as well since where we all know that the big deliverable for us is putting together a proposal for a grant. So maybe we want to take this week to put together some of our own thoughts and notes or… And I'm also happy to meet again, based on the times that we choose. So I guess it's just up to the group, which should we meet - this week, based on the doodle results or wait until next week?

Jason Schrader: I am definitely open to what everybody wants to do on that. The other thing I am curious about too is, you know, do we like the one week or the two week (the bi-weekly schedule). And is that something that we wanted to discuss now or as part of this next meeting.

Lane Rettig: So, this has already evolved from a doodle into a Google form that's going to include that as a question. So feel free to discuss it now or we can wait till we have some data and see what people say.

Jason Schrader: Sure. Sure, happy to make it more complicated.

Jenny: Okay. And yeah, I think that um you know we're should, we move forward with like a bi-weekly cadence and we'd probably just have to get really good at setting action items and checking in on those action items. Because we, with the grant.io platform up and running soon, we’ll probably want to submit some to…

Jenny: Brittany did you have like a, did you mention this earlier and I missed it. But did you have a timeline in mind for when this group could start submitting or, you know, how early could we actually submit?

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, well, I'm happy. You know, before the platform is up and running as we can get more informally, but I'm yeah, I have a sort of just early template of the report, like the questions for grants. And so I can share that probably by Friday. I like what that looks like. I just want to get feedback from a few folks individually and then I'll be able to share that. So that would be like the draft - like what needs to be in the proposal. And I think, you know, the goal is to have it be short and efficient. But you know people who would apply for a grant would need to lay out, like what is the grant for? Like, how does this help further the mission? What are the deliverables of this grant, like the measures of success? So basically, a, you know, an outline with that. But if there's ideas on that sooner, like, then the platform, we can talk about it. And then the application but happened once the platform’s live. Which like I said, the deliverable from grant.io  should be in two weeks. I think that's July 30 is the deliverable date? But we'll have to, like, just make sure it's all been bug tested and stuff. So maybe after, I think August 3 is a Monday. So maybe that August 3rd, August 4th could be a submit date. But happy to talk about it like before that, too. So you don't feel like wait until that date to get an idea for that.

Jenny: Thanks, Brittany. Yeah, I think I'm okay, so in addition to Lane’s doodle, what I can do is I can start a collaborative doc for us to just, to put down our rough ideas about you know what this group should look like. I think it's totally fine that we don't have a super clear cut answer for, you know, definitively what this group is going to do and what you know what it stands for. But it's worth getting everyone's thoughts, raw thoughts on paper and refining from there, because it sounds like we have time to do that. Okay, so yeah. Next steps Lane’s, Lane’s Google form actually and collaborative doc for me. Anything else that I'm missing, everyone? 

Jason Schrader: Not, not that not directly for me. But if there is any feedback. We need on the action items or any of the agenda items or, you know, anything that we've set prior into moving things into this next phase. I'm definitely happy to help with that. I just wanted to voice that.

Jenny: Oh, great. Yeah, I… is there any, if you have like, you know, overview type notes, Jason, of, of what like could help you there. Maybe that would be helpful, sending those to the discord channel?

Jason Schrader: Sure.

Jenny: Okay. Yep, that's, that's all I can think of. Otherwise, we're just, we're a minute over, but I think that's pretty good, given this was like a very big discussion. So, looking forward to next meeting, everyone. Thank you so much for productive conversation. 

[various] Likewise. Thank you. Thank you kindly. Take care everybody.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
