# 20201008 Governance Working Group Call 25

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:03.149 --> 00:00:16.320
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, we're recording. Hi, everyone. Welcome to the stacks governance group working group session. I think there's a better name for this. And today's Thursday, October 8

2
00:00:16.800 --> 00:00:32.250
Blockstack Meeting: And just a little past noon Eastern and I am here with Judah Jason and Ryan. Thanks for joining and we don't have a huge turnout today, but I think it's worth our time to go through the agenda and sort of get caught up on

3
00:00:33.510 --> 00:00:43.500
Blockstack Meeting: Issues that we've discussed in the in the past month or so. So thank you to Jason for updating the agenda. Let me share my screen.

4
00:00:44.760 --> 00:00:49.380
Blockstack Meeting: I might need some assistance moderating this. I know it's really straightforward, but I always get nervous.

5
00:00:50.640 --> 00:00:51.750
Blockstack Meeting: Mess up the process.

6
00:00:57.210 --> 00:01:08.040
Jason Schrader: No problem. And just a quick note on where we are today too. So this is the first time we're using a new agenda template that comes up. So whenever we create a new issue.

7
00:01:08.610 --> 00:01:15.210
Jason Schrader: It goes ahead and lists out this agenda template and it's very straightforward and points back to the labels that we have

8
00:01:16.050 --> 00:01:25.500
Jason Schrader: For all the different meeting items and everything else. So we're going to kind of take that focus back to the issues, but I'll let you go ahead and lead. If you need any any of my input at any point, I'm happy to help.

9
00:01:26.520 --> 00:01:30.270
Blockstack Meeting: Sure. Thank you. And as you sighs. Mr. The screen shares

10
00:01:31.320 --> 00:01:34.590
Blockstack Meeting: Could be just turn off my notifications from

11
00:01:36.450 --> 00:01:38.970
Blockstack Meeting: Discord must be less distracting.

12
00:01:49.590 --> 00:01:50.700
Jesus Christ.

13
00:01:52.860 --> 00:01:53.250
There we go.

14
00:01:57.540 --> 00:01:59.760
Blockstack Meeting: Okay so y'all can see that right

15
00:02:01.110 --> 00:02:01.320
Blockstack Meeting: Yep.

16
00:02:03.030 --> 00:02:04.800
Blockstack Meeting: Alright, so

17
00:02:06.510 --> 00:02:13.410
Blockstack Meeting: Why don't we just start with a quick round of stand ups. And just as a reminder, we'll go over what everyone is working on right now.

18
00:02:13.950 --> 00:02:22.170
Blockstack Meeting: Whether you're facing any blockers and what you expect to happen over the next couple of weeks, which I think is a new question and that is

19
00:02:22.650 --> 00:02:37.950
Blockstack Meeting: Great for getting everyone caught up on on our progress and what our goals are for each of our projects. I'm just going to go down what looks like my list and Jude, you want to share what you're working on any blockers and your goals for the next couple of weeks.

20
00:02:40.500 --> 00:02:47.430
Jude Nelson: I guess minerals my rules are basically to keep working on the stacks grant committee and

21
00:02:48.630 --> 00:02:55.740
Jude Nelson: Not much. Not much motion, not, not, not much movement of the needle on the proposal, unfortunately, because we're trying to get sex to point out the door.

22
00:02:57.780 --> 00:03:01.020
Jude Nelson: And that's just where we are right now my I'm blocked on lack of time.

23
00:03:03.180 --> 00:03:05.370
Blockstack Meeting: Time is blocking. Okay.

24
00:03:06.780 --> 00:03:10.620
Blockstack Meeting: Um, anything you expect to happen over the next two weeks.

25
00:03:11.910 --> 00:03:15.510
Jude Nelson: I'll probably have more grants, I know that.

26
00:03:16.710 --> 00:03:24.060
Jude Nelson: That I think last time we talked about the voting proposal, which was the last major thing that I had. There was a

27
00:03:25.800 --> 00:03:37.950
Jude Nelson: Way to get there was a proposal, I think, for someone to write a grant to explore various types of voting options, more. But, I mean, that's probably the extended I'll be able to contribute to that front of the next two weeks, unfortunately.

28
00:03:39.450 --> 00:03:42.720
Jude Nelson: I'm just reviewing so proposal materializes

29
00:03:45.240 --> 00:03:46.920
Blockstack Meeting: Thank you, Jason.

30
00:03:49.020 --> 00:03:54.390
Jason Schrader: Alright so on my side. I went ahead and mershon this PR that does the

31
00:03:54.900 --> 00:04:03.810
Jason Schrader: Agenda templates, like I mentioned earlier. So we're going to start working with that now I'm working on the standard operating procedures document that we have trying to get that updated.

32
00:04:04.290 --> 00:04:11.910
Jason Schrader: And basically trying to streamline things. So it's much easier for anybody to be involved at whatever level, they want to be involved. So we've got

33
00:04:12.330 --> 00:04:19.680
Jason Schrader: A pretty good structure that we've built just since we started this group, and we're just trying to continually refine that and make it as simple as possible.

34
00:04:20.310 --> 00:04:28.920
Jason Schrader: I don't have any blockers. At this point, just trying to keep up with it. And I'd say, over the next two weeks. My goal is definitely to have those operating procedures done

35
00:04:29.250 --> 00:04:36.660
Jason Schrader: And if that goes really smoothly. I'm also trying to update some of the calls based on our calls table that we have in the resources repo.

36
00:04:37.050 --> 00:04:43.470
Jason Schrader: As well as go through some of these action items and discussion items to see what we can close out because we definitely have

37
00:04:43.770 --> 00:04:53.550
Jason Schrader: Some lingering items like somewhere more discussion points that we wanted to hang on to and some are things that probably have been acted on that we can we can look at finishing out and clip making that list a little shorter.

38
00:04:55.590 --> 00:05:00.840
Blockstack Meeting: Got it. Anything blocking you. And any goals for the next few weeks.

39
00:05:02.700 --> 00:05:06.660
Jason Schrader: I don't know blockers and my goals would be just that just those that I laid out.

40
00:05:08.250 --> 00:05:15.570
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, sorry, I was asked, but he clearly already gone over them and Europe Day. Okay, thank you, Jason, Ryan.

41
00:05:17.490 --> 00:05:23.910
Ryan Arndt: Oh, wait a minute. Okay. Yes. So mostly now I'm working on outreach to get more people applying for grants program.

42
00:05:25.020 --> 00:05:39.330
Ryan Arndt: So it's designed a grants outreach committee and as you know Jane and so I'm working on that. And then we'll have that up for review could have more people involved. Next we want to have more

43
00:05:40.500 --> 00:05:43.260
Ryan Arndt: Community Engagement in the grants program as well as getting

44
00:05:44.610 --> 00:05:51.480
Ryan Arndt: Like the word out more. Just a new people, because I know there's a lot of the literature, the routes here. Notice it's often the same

45
00:05:52.050 --> 00:06:00.450
Ryan Arndt: Folks are working on stuff. And so when we get similar and people involved in that sort of way. So I'm going to be like, I'll read you know one to one people

46
00:06:01.110 --> 00:06:09.660
Ryan Arndt: So that's pretty much ongoing for the rest of the quarter and beyond, I'm sure. But as that's basically what's going on here. They're doing any

47
00:06:10.350 --> 00:06:20.490
Ryan Arndt: approvals on grants as junior saying, but that's basically the focus of everything. Looking forward to seeing the the governance committee grant come through. Yeah. When the time's right for that.

48
00:06:22.050 --> 00:06:28.050
Blockstack Meeting: Great, any blockers, anything that you specifically would like to get done over the next few weeks.

49
00:06:28.980 --> 00:06:35.700
Ryan Arndt: It's the only blockers time. It's the same thing is huge because there's a lot of people contacted by the stuff. So, but

50
00:06:36.900 --> 00:06:43.110
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, if there's like, you know, Jay asked you about already, but Jason if you know any folks you think I should reach out to you, please let me know.

51
00:06:43.740 --> 00:06:57.420
Ryan Arndt: Jude, same thing. Be happy to kind of people one on one, and help people where they can, if any questions or you know the feedback of the grants program that I can take to our Grants Committee, you know, move things forward to make be awesome as grants program that ever was.

52
00:07:00.360 --> 00:07:01.680
Ryan Arndt: That was my grants depends, I guess.

53
00:07:03.420 --> 00:07:14.430
Blockstack Meeting: Well, thank you for that Ryan That's really exciting about the Grants Committee and just all of the the efforts on the grants program is getting off the ground and it was super exciting to have

54
00:07:15.330 --> 00:07:20.700
Blockstack Meeting: The first round of grant recipients on the town hall. By the way, I think that was super exciting for the community to see

55
00:07:21.000 --> 00:07:27.060
Blockstack Meeting: And for the PVC team to see just because it's, it's something we've talked about for so long. And now people

56
00:07:27.480 --> 00:07:35.040
Blockstack Meeting: Are actually seeing that this is a legitimate process that you should go through and it is a legitimate way to fund your ideas and

57
00:07:35.460 --> 00:07:43.170
Blockstack Meeting: And that you need to come prepared with good ideas, which a lot of our community members have. So, and he was just very encouraging for the ecosystem all for all

58
00:07:44.130 --> 00:07:51.570
Blockstack Meeting: And yeah, okay, so I will go and Ryan, you mentioned this, but the so the grant proposal for

59
00:07:51.930 --> 00:08:10.830
Blockstack Meeting: Our group is pretty there hasn't been that much. We've been on it. Actually, the, the one thing that I wanted to talk about. And with this group was perhaps for replacing one part of the proposal, and that is the Gaia hub in boxes and aspect of the proposal. So I think with the voting that

60
00:08:11.850 --> 00:08:23.040
Blockstack Meeting: You mentioned earlier, Jude and with the camp evil code of conduct those things are pretty straightforward. And I think that they are. I personally think that there are there things that we can get started on this quarter.

61
00:08:23.670 --> 00:08:28.230
Blockstack Meeting: I've mentioned it to do Walker and we'll have a call with him to explain a little more about like

62
00:08:28.290 --> 00:08:28.920
Blockstack Meeting: The scope.

63
00:08:29.040 --> 00:08:34.530
Blockstack Meeting: Of the project, but it just seems like with all the work that needs to be done with stacks to this is

64
00:08:35.340 --> 00:08:46.500
Blockstack Meeting: less of a priority, but could easily because we have like this skeleton and ideas of for for how we could do this, we could easily pursue this next quarter. And yeah, I mean,

65
00:08:47.010 --> 00:08:51.030
Blockstack Meeting: I wasn't supposed to get started on the discussion now, but that is where my head is at with the

66
00:08:51.870 --> 00:08:58.560
Blockstack Meeting: That grant application and mostly I'm just eager to get it out the door and get it through the process for review.

67
00:08:59.220 --> 00:09:06.660
Blockstack Meeting: Because it's it's actually really valuable to get comments and feedback from the grant committee because at this stage, we can't. We don't really know what else we need to add

68
00:09:07.200 --> 00:09:13.050
Blockstack Meeting: And so that's where I'm at. With that there are a bunch of other sort of Community initiatives in flight that I think

69
00:09:14.220 --> 00:09:24.540
Blockstack Meeting: are of interest to this group. So I had a great call with Alex grave, who's our who's a developer experience lead at block SEC PVC last night.

70
00:09:25.110 --> 00:09:34.860
Blockstack Meeting: And we've been talking about tax sessions for the community for a while now. So, as we all know, we have a really committed and talented developer community.

71
00:09:36.300 --> 00:09:39.150
Blockstack Meeting: Like working on block staff all the time and

72
00:09:40.320 --> 00:09:47.880
Blockstack Meeting: We basically just want to mobilize this community of developers, along with our engineering team to just hack on relevant issues more often and

73
00:09:48.360 --> 00:09:55.770
Blockstack Meeting: Right now, we were inspired by or we've been inspired by Oktoberfest, we just want to encourage more open source contributions across the board, but

74
00:09:56.730 --> 00:10:09.360
Blockstack Meeting: Depending on how successful something like a hack week would be this is something that we could do monthly and that sort of led to some thinking about grants for Community leads so

75
00:10:10.200 --> 00:10:19.500
Blockstack Meeting: They're obviously folks like you Jason who have taken on huge pieces of community work, so much so that you know it's clearly a full time job and

76
00:10:20.070 --> 00:10:31.770
Blockstack Meeting: I think that ownership and leadership that you take on for these projects is really key to consistency and sustainability for these Community initiatives that everybody seems to be interested in, like,

77
00:10:32.370 --> 00:10:38.520
Blockstack Meeting: You know, we don't really know how to get to the next level with so I kind of wanted to float the idea of putting

78
00:10:39.060 --> 00:10:49.530
Blockstack Meeting: Of writing up a grant application for some of these community lead roles. So having someone who does actually take the lead on hack hack sessions, right, or half weeks.

79
00:10:50.400 --> 00:11:01.650
Blockstack Meeting: And having that be their sole focus and I know Jason, you brought up the issue of bounties for some of these more discrete tasks with standard operating procedures for this group, for example.

80
00:11:02.280 --> 00:11:11.550
Blockstack Meeting: But also acknowledging that by having someone take care of those discrete tasks. They would then become an expert and how this group runs and could eventually become like a

81
00:11:12.150 --> 00:11:19.650
Blockstack Meeting: The recognized leader by community members so so yeah we've kind of had overlap with these ideas. And I want to just throw that out there and

82
00:11:20.820 --> 00:11:32.160
Blockstack Meeting: Get the group's help on refining it, because I think that there's something to that idea. Alex and I were really excited about it when we talked about it last night. So that is where I am blockers. I don't know.

83
00:11:34.140 --> 00:11:37.410
Blockstack Meeting: It's probably time and it's probably like I'm

84
00:11:38.790 --> 00:11:51.510
Blockstack Meeting: Just finding the time to sit down and come up with a cohesive strategy. It's really easy to have good ideas. It's like, much harder to turn those ideas into actionable strategies.

85
00:11:52.380 --> 00:12:06.750
Blockstack Meeting: So yeah, that's why I'm talking about them here. And over the next few weeks. I really hope that we can just submit this grant application and and perhaps make some movement on just getting the getting the game back together. The usual governance group game.

86
00:12:07.740 --> 00:12:23.010
Jude Nelson: I think that's a really good idea. I think the ranks may be interested in trying that out, setting up grants for running community events like hack like hack sessions or getting even together to work on particular problem that could be hammered out like a weekend or something like that.

87
00:12:23.610 --> 00:12:35.520
Jude Nelson: Oh yeah, one of the grant committee is and this is actually kind of a something I'm personally trying to adjust to is more than just soliciting technical solutions for technical problems. It's also about growing community itself.

88
00:12:37.380 --> 00:12:48.360
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah. And I'll give a little context, I realized that there is a way to go through this agenda so I'll give a little context. And then we can move forward or backwards. Thanks for your reassurance.

89
00:12:50.370 --> 00:12:52.410
Blockstack Meeting: Yes. Okay, so the context is that

90
00:12:54.450 --> 00:13:06.960
Blockstack Meeting: Alex and was able to put in the time to go through a bunch of block sack repos and pull issues that are, that would be really great to work on with community. Right. So these are critical issues that are important.

91
00:13:07.710 --> 00:13:15.210
Blockstack Meeting: To the tools and applications that premium members are working on. But maybe aren't necessarily prioritize because of the very focused work on on sex to stuff.

92
00:13:15.480 --> 00:13:28.110
Blockstack Meeting: And so these issues. These specific issues have been pulled and labeled as, like, you know, good Oktoberfest issues or just good community issues to work on. So there's we have a list of those already that was like the first step in, in making this happen.

93
00:13:29.580 --> 00:13:42.420
Blockstack Meeting: And I know that the engineering team internally is looking forward to having a dedicated Doc's day or like a day or two. Next month where they just have dedicated time to work on getting high quality documentation out there for

94
00:13:43.350 --> 00:13:49.620
Blockstack Meeting: For stacks to which is super important. And we've seen really good examples from other organizations right like

95
00:13:49.950 --> 00:13:57.300
Blockstack Meeting: Docker did a hackathon completely focused on their a much larger organization, but they didn't act on completely focused on documentation.

96
00:13:57.900 --> 00:14:01.920
Blockstack Meeting: Got a ton of help from community. And it was really fun. Obviously because

97
00:14:02.370 --> 00:14:16.020
Blockstack Meeting: Documentation enables everyone. So when you can like mobilizer go global community to do that and you just reward you make it fun and you reward these tasks with points every everybody wins. So that's sort of what we want to work toward and

98
00:14:17.190 --> 00:14:19.680
Blockstack Meeting: I think that like we have some things in place, but

99
00:14:20.760 --> 00:14:28.200
Blockstack Meeting: Need help every community to to push it forward. Of course my My fear is that like this becomes another

100
00:14:28.890 --> 00:14:39.330
Blockstack Meeting: Block sack PVC self centered event. We're like, hey, these are some issues that we have, like, who wants to help us work on them like what we're willing to put some rewards for that. And that's just that's very different from

101
00:14:40.410 --> 00:14:44.490
Blockstack Meeting: You know, building camaraderie between all stacks community members.

102
00:14:45.300 --> 00:14:52.680
Blockstack Meeting: And fostering a sense of like we want to work on these together at the same time every month because, you know, once we get this stuff done.

103
00:14:52.950 --> 00:15:02.310
Blockstack Meeting: We can start tackling like these other projects that we've been wanting to work on and especially now that we're all remote. It's like a great way to just socialize as well. I, I used to like

104
00:15:03.330 --> 00:15:18.690
Blockstack Meeting: It my old company, we had internal hack weeks for our team where we worked on problems that were often left behind you so fun because you just generally don't have that kind of time to focus like that any other time of the year. So this is, this is an opportunity for community and

105
00:15:19.770 --> 00:15:34.200
Blockstack Meeting: Other entities to do that. Now I'm rambling at this stage, but that's the context and if anyone has ideas, especially, unlike the grants front like how we could structure that Grant What would make that grant successful I'm all yours.

106
00:15:35.400 --> 00:15:44.010
Ryan Arndt: I know something that might be because there's a wish list and like free group put one on there so you could add that, or one of the specific issues that Alex has

107
00:15:44.580 --> 00:15:54.870
Ryan Arndt: Brought up as like the first one and then it could be added on their minutes just one place or like you just said, getting more visible for community members to bring it forward.

108
00:15:56.160 --> 00:15:56.310
Yeah.

109
00:15:58.650 --> 00:16:06.570
Jason Schrader: Well, now I'll second that. I like the the wish list idea because that helps people who may be a little intimidated by writing a grant proposal. Anyway, it's like, Hey, here's

110
00:16:06.870 --> 00:16:13.110
Jason Schrader: A basic outline of what we're looking for what we're thinking you can turn this into something bigger, but it gives you a nice starting point.

111
00:16:13.440 --> 00:16:15.900
Jason Schrader: To start thinking like, hey, that's something I would do a grant for

112
00:16:18.000 --> 00:16:20.370
Jude Nelson: It's almost like a call for grants kind of thing.

113
00:16:20.910 --> 00:16:23.610
Ryan Arndt: To me rephrase community golf either way.

114
00:16:25.260 --> 00:16:35.400
Blockstack Meeting: So it'd be like putting the idea out there and putting sort of like a skeleton of what it would look like out there and hoping that someone else picks it up and like writes it in full.

115
00:16:36.000 --> 00:16:46.650
Ryan Arndt: Yeah. Well, I could like, share it with the community like once it's up there. I can say is the interest in this on our wish list and wants to work on it you know there's money in it to me. So

116
00:16:48.210 --> 00:16:49.290
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, um,

117
00:16:50.880 --> 00:17:02.940
Blockstack Meeting: I guess I guess what I couldn't do what I was able to figure out the independently, is that, you know, I could easily write this right up this application, but I just don't think you'd be right coming for me.

118
00:17:04.650 --> 00:17:06.180
Blockstack Meeting: It should be something that

119
00:17:07.290 --> 00:17:13.950
Blockstack Meeting: Another community member wants to sort of take on and even if that so that community. The community member who writes

120
00:17:14.610 --> 00:17:21.480
Blockstack Meeting: The application doesn't actually need to be the person that ends up taking the role it could just be that they write it and they have other people in mind. So it'd be like

121
00:17:21.870 --> 00:17:33.000
Blockstack Meeting: If Jason were really passionate about this and it's like, I recommend like Pascal and Juliet and Charlene. I think that they would be great to lead the stream and the stream and the stream.

122
00:17:34.320 --> 00:17:42.420
Blockstack Meeting: And like, you know, a call for anyone else who might be interested so i don't know i i also don't know you should specifically call people out

123
00:17:43.440 --> 00:17:50.070
Blockstack Meeting: That's what I was thinking in my head so there would be specific roles laid out. We need someone to me it means ones like this, this

124
00:17:50.850 --> 00:17:59.250
Ryan Arndt: Maybe before putting it on the wish list. If you go into discord chat and just it's less formalized the conversation, then you can take people and doesn't feel like you're taking them into grant

125
00:18:00.990 --> 00:18:06.330
Jude Nelson: We had a grant last grant me the meeting had separately talked about the idea of trying to

126
00:18:08.550 --> 00:18:14.760
Jude Nelson: Maybe that privately, but like directly reach out to individuals to try to at least in the to try in the

127
00:18:15.120 --> 00:18:22.830
Jude Nelson: In the city process to get people to form an advisory committees like even if they're just one person committees for now, just so we can start from that ball rolling. So

128
00:18:23.130 --> 00:18:34.530
Jude Nelson: It's not without precedent. So I'm trying to say like reaching out specific community members who we think we do a good job at getting a particular type of grant off the ground or getting a particular community effort off program.

129
00:18:35.400 --> 00:18:36.480
Ryan Arndt: That is something that I could do

130
00:18:36.840 --> 00:18:45.780
Jude Nelson: Anything like we should be structured and seen as like an honor or like a command a commendation well you should be good at this.

131
00:18:46.290 --> 00:18:47.130
Blockstack Meeting: Great, yeah I

132
00:18:47.730 --> 00:18:54.570
Blockstack Meeting: I had the sense that that would be okay. I didn't want it to be like, I guess what I wanted to avoid was

133
00:18:55.140 --> 00:19:00.900
Blockstack Meeting: Hey, I want to, I want to contract this workout to someone, I really wanted to avoid it seeming like that.

134
00:19:01.800 --> 00:19:08.850
Blockstack Meeting: I think my, my sense is that there are a lot of folks who could take the lead on certain projects and would be happy to. Because these projects end up

135
00:19:09.330 --> 00:19:18.090
Blockstack Meeting: taking so much time, it actually is kind of unethical to expect people to step up without there being some sort of compensation or like some sort of structure in place.

136
00:19:19.110 --> 00:19:29.070
Blockstack Meeting: That's like, that's where my thinking is, I just didn't want it to come off as, like, hey, this is the job, you know, and I said this to Jason as well like bounties are always a great idea but I wondered whether

137
00:19:29.730 --> 00:19:39.030
Blockstack Meeting: They kind of undermine the goal of fostering a long term dynamic of people wanting to take projects to the next level, but Jason

138
00:19:39.480 --> 00:19:47.520
Blockstack Meeting: brought up a good point in that, like, you know, in doing in completing a bunch of discrete tasks you can become an expert on something and eventually want to step up so

139
00:19:47.820 --> 00:19:59.550
Blockstack Meeting: There, there are like a few ways to go about it. But as long as it's clear that this is not like a contract for work and I need someone to do this kind of thing. It's an opportunity to just sort of take ownership of a project then

140
00:20:00.660 --> 00:20:02.280
Blockstack Meeting: I think it totally works.

141
00:20:04.110 --> 00:20:12.930
Jude Nelson: Yeah, totally, like, I see what you mean. Wanting to avoid trying to turn this into some sort of transactional relationship like this really should exercise and camaraderie.

142
00:20:13.890 --> 00:20:23.730
Jude Nelson: Yeah, not soliciting people were saying like, hey, we're doing a little get together here to make make a particular set of documentation for this particular process. For example,

143
00:20:24.420 --> 00:20:37.590
Jude Nelson: That you spend a lot of time working on in the past. I wonder if you'd be interested will make it worth your while. But we really would love for you in the fall. People like CC on this because we know you guys have worked on this in the past like, something like that.

144
00:20:39.120 --> 00:20:48.930
Ryan Arndt: Even if there's a particular one, like a particular issue that you have in mind like Alex could share it says he was on organizing it and then it doesn't have so much but

145
00:20:50.340 --> 00:20:57.780
Ryan Arndt: Cuz I know is working in the community side of things, it's harder to post that stuff with not be seen as pushing this certain thing. You know what I mean.

146
00:20:59.310 --> 00:21:00.510
Blockstack Meeting: The GitHub issues, right.

147
00:21:00.930 --> 00:21:09.600
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, like there's a specific GitHub issue that he's found then he could say, hey, this one's come up like it could now way for the Alex might come across mustards.

148
00:21:11.340 --> 00:21:11.730
Ryan Arndt: I don't know.

149
00:21:12.120 --> 00:21:15.090
Blockstack Meeting: You were just clarifying that. There's a list of

150
00:21:15.840 --> 00:21:26.430
Blockstack Meeting: Issues that folks can work on that their base. It's basically an issue list of issues that are up for grabs. Some of them are actually quite simple and straightforward, so it wouldn't. Most of them aren't worth

151
00:21:27.210 --> 00:21:38.370
Blockstack Meeting: Building an entire grant application around the idea is that that list exists as like a continuously updated directory and during these hack weeks and

152
00:21:38.820 --> 00:21:49.110
Blockstack Meeting: These like these hack week. Could they could be themed right so like this month is our theme is Oktoberfest. So just like you know any L PRS go because we want to encourage

153
00:21:50.400 --> 00:21:55.980
Blockstack Meeting: Open Source contribution, but next next month. It would be like doc specific issues and then the month after that it would be

154
00:21:56.610 --> 00:22:04.170
Blockstack Meeting: Clarity specific issues. So, so they would be themed and the goal is just to make a huge dent in this list and then we sort of rebuild our

155
00:22:04.410 --> 00:22:17.550
Blockstack Meeting: Open Source muscle is like operating like a whole community that comes together and like tries to get through these critical issues collaboratively rather than, like, asking Who's taking care of this. And, you know, why is this why does like progress on this disappear.

156
00:22:18.720 --> 00:22:28.980
Blockstack Meeting: So that there's there's visibility. So yeah, just put a little more context on that and I can share that directory with you more after this pending like Alex is okay with it, but I'm sure he will be

157
00:22:30.630 --> 00:22:34.950
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, okay. Well, it sounds like the reception. This idea is positive.

158
00:22:36.450 --> 00:22:53.340
Blockstack Meeting: And I'm aware of the time. So actually, Jason. I'm going to defer to you. We've had some discussion on a few things. How would you recommend we move forward. There are, there's a section for foundation updates action items discussion items miscellaneous items.

159
00:22:55.710 --> 00:22:56.700
Jason Schrader: Sure, so

160
00:22:57.270 --> 00:23:09.540
Jason Schrader: I think the quickest thing we could go through the foundation updates. If you go ahead and click on that label. In particular, there were just a few little things that that were standing out and that we've kind of talked about from meeting to meeting so you know we've had this

161
00:23:09.840 --> 00:23:20.850
Jason Schrader: Idea of a community board seat, for example, and you know a few people a voice that they liked the idea, but we haven't really had a way to turn that into action yet. So that was a big one that

162
00:23:21.480 --> 00:23:30.240
Jason Schrader: I would like these are things we definitely want to keep on the list and keep in the discussion. But if we don't have any updates. I think it's good just to give these a high level overview

163
00:23:30.630 --> 00:23:34.830
Jason Schrader: On each call. And then same with the action items and discussion items as we can.

164
00:23:35.280 --> 00:23:42.690
Jason Schrader: But also, you know, keeping in mind, everyone's time and the fact we have a smaller group today. I don't know how many decisions are things we can actually make

165
00:23:43.110 --> 00:23:52.890
Jason Schrader: But, with that in mind, so the the community board seat is one that I imagined would stay open the call for board nominations. That's actually stayed open because that's an ongoing process.

166
00:23:53.190 --> 00:23:59.100
Jason Schrader: So there might be something we can list there, but it's a nice thing to kind of talk about in each meeting and then the bylaws.

167
00:23:59.520 --> 00:24:05.250
Jason Schrader: Though, those are out already. So I think we can actually close that issue and and call that good to go.

168
00:24:05.640 --> 00:24:16.860
Jason Schrader: And that's more of the goal of why we would kind of review each of these categories. So do you. Does anybody at least here see any issue with closing the bylaw issue we've got by laws in place any blockers to that.

169
00:24:21.090 --> 00:24:25.860
Jason Schrader: Alright, so that's one thing I can, I can definitely take care of, or if you want to just go in and close it out. I think we're good.

170
00:24:26.340 --> 00:24:37.620
Jason Schrader: And then from there we can do the same with the action items and discussion items, real quick. I think the other goal of it would be, you know, for the people we have on the call. And as we start to get more of our regulars back in

171
00:24:37.950 --> 00:24:46.560
Jason Schrader: Is to find those action items and discussion items that really matter to people to have their chance to still bring them up or update any progress or anything else.

172
00:24:46.860 --> 00:24:53.700
Jason Schrader: And of course anybody's welcome to make comments on these issues, especially anybody watching this recording later anything else. This is our

173
00:24:54.030 --> 00:24:58.110
Jason Schrader: Running list of items that we have for every meeting. So I think that's

174
00:24:58.410 --> 00:25:07.560
Jason Schrader: More of an important point to make at this phase and then hopefully what becomes more of a focus, as we have people joining the working group or, you know, being more present on these calls

175
00:25:07.830 --> 00:25:19.140
Jason Schrader: And even if you can't make these calls you know make comments on the issues or create new issues or let's keep things moving in a sense that we can still have these conversations, whether they're a sink or part of the calls themselves.

176
00:25:22.230 --> 00:25:27.090
Jason Schrader: On it. Thank you, Jason That's, that's my spiel. Okay, and

177
00:25:27.120 --> 00:25:32.130
Blockstack Meeting: That that's that's actually a great point. And I think that we've appreciated moving to a

178
00:25:32.760 --> 00:25:41.970
Blockstack Meeting: Bi weekly or semi monthly schedule. Just because weekly was getting a bit difficult for for all of us to keep on top of but we lost some consistency and doing that so

179
00:25:42.390 --> 00:25:48.540
Blockstack Meeting: There are suggestions for how we can keep up consistency without having to go back to that weekly meeting schedule.

180
00:25:48.990 --> 00:26:00.030
Blockstack Meeting: That would be great. I know in the past, we've done things like asynchronous updates in the channel. We talked about that here too. So that's potentially a solution for the consistency issue.

181
00:26:02.370 --> 00:26:07.380
Jason Schrader: And kind of on that same topic, when we were talking about the standard operating procedures that we have

182
00:26:07.770 --> 00:26:15.060
Jason Schrader: What I would like to do and what I'm working to update them for is to help people feel more comfortable taking part in any of this.

183
00:26:15.420 --> 00:26:25.200
Jason Schrader: So earlier, you know, we were talking about, well, it's great to have a community lead we it's really great to build things in a way that anybody can replace you or anybody can do the tasks, you're doing

184
00:26:25.470 --> 00:26:33.900
Jason Schrader: So that you might be the person doing it now, but there could be someone doing it later and I consider the same when we talk about the small like discrete tasks that we would do bounties for

185
00:26:34.320 --> 00:26:41.970
Jason Schrader: That way it's really easy for someone to do the notes after a meeting or something like that. So that's where a lot of these procedures are headed and

186
00:26:42.480 --> 00:26:51.810
Jason Schrader: Once those are updated. I think it would be a lot easier for people to jump in and say, oh, I want to do this little portion or that little portion or something to that effect.

187
00:26:58.080 --> 00:27:00.120
Blockstack Meeting: Move on to the action items.

188
00:27:02.010 --> 00:27:13.080
Jason Schrader: It's a pretty long list, but looking at that first one that one can go out because we've got the grants working through GitHub for now that I know grant.io is is coming down the board now.

189
00:27:13.680 --> 00:27:20.040
Jason Schrader: Judah, Ryan, do you know, do we have any updates on the grant that I oh integration or we just talking with GitHub for now.

190
00:27:23.070 --> 00:27:34.620
Ryan Arndt: It's a sort of stuff going through testing of stuff like that. There's thinking like for tracking milestones and things. I haven't seen on grant.io how that all works. Yeah, um,

191
00:27:35.250 --> 00:27:49.890
Ryan Arndt: But yeah cuz there's gonna be different thing. I think GitHub may end up still being used in some ways, but yeah. Granted, I was getting close to get it all, like on the website and everything connected and all that stuff that I don't want to do, but

192
00:27:51.030 --> 00:27:54.090
Ryan Arndt: that's ongoing. So yeah, it's, it's coming.

193
00:27:55.980 --> 00:28:07.320
Jason Schrader: Okay, awesome. Well, in that sense, I'll close out the grass application draft after this, because we've definitely gotten to a stage where we have a grant application because we've got him processed and they're going through.

194
00:28:08.010 --> 00:28:19.290
Jason Schrader: And some of these other issues that we have on the list here. There was actually the second one that I created. Here we're using GitHub pages for both the resources and project management repository right now.

195
00:28:20.010 --> 00:28:30.060
Jason Schrader: And there was some consideration of putting them onto an actual sub domain of stacks.org versus using the standard stacks GitHub GitHub IO domain that comes with it.

196
00:28:30.930 --> 00:28:45.030
Jason Schrader: So that's the the second one on the list there. Do we know at the last time I brought this up. We didn't have control over the DNS from the foundation side of things. Has that changed at all, I think, dude. Would you know

197
00:28:46.140 --> 00:28:49.170
Jude Nelson: I don't think it's changed again, it's a matter of

198
00:28:49.200 --> 00:28:50.580
Jude Nelson: It's a matter of bandwidth

199
00:28:51.180 --> 00:29:05.310
Jason Schrader: I totally understand that it's a it's a chicken and egg thing because we're stacks 2.0 and everything that's being built right now. That's definitely the top priority. So I know these are smaller items. But that's why they continue to stay on the list. So we'll just keep that one open

200
00:29:09.480 --> 00:29:13.740
Blockstack Meeting: Okay. And did you want to. Should we go through all of these Jason

201
00:29:17.640 --> 00:29:29.460
Jason Schrader: Yeah, you know, it just did it be considered of everyone's time let me kind of remember what we're going through here. So the general stacks foundation information structure I I don't recall what that where can you pull that one up number 77

202
00:29:36.270 --> 00:29:45.120
Jason Schrader: Okay, so this was where we started reorganizing things and and I remember that. So we have actually made some really good progress.

203
00:29:45.510 --> 00:29:53.220
Jason Schrader: Towards a lot of that. And what I would like to do so. My, my task over the next two weeks is I'd like to go through some of these existing issues and see what's done

204
00:29:53.640 --> 00:30:07.650
Jason Schrader: So we can go back to the main list and some of these are definitely going to get closed out because I'm looking at like the landing page one number 45 that's definitely done at this stage, even if we want to change what the domain is later.

205
00:30:08.670 --> 00:30:17.340
Jason Schrader: And I'll do some cleanup before we have to go through each of these individually. I think the bigger point that I wanted people to see was that these labels.

206
00:30:17.670 --> 00:30:29.490
Jason Schrader: Correlate to each section and that if we want to add new things. Or if we want to make comments or if we want to do anything related to them. This is the place to do it. So as long as we're getting that message out there. I think that's good for this meeting.

207
00:30:30.360 --> 00:30:41.730
Jason Schrader: Otherwise, I will definitely focus on that clean up so we can get a better list to work with in these meetings because I'd like to focus our time on the things that matter versus just going through each one individually.

208
00:30:42.390 --> 00:30:42.690
Blockstack Meeting: On it.

209
00:30:47.910 --> 00:30:54.780
Blockstack Meeting: And discussion items we went into some discussion. Okay, so there's nothing here yet.

210
00:30:55.980 --> 00:30:59.670
Jason Schrader: I think, I think that might actually be a broken link on my side, I think, is supposed to be.

211
00:30:59.730 --> 00:31:09.480
Jason Schrader: MTG dash discuss instead of discussion. So if you go ahead and click on it and just make it the word discuss that should work. I caught this and another one that I was working on. Yeah.

212
00:31:09.960 --> 00:31:17.190
Jason Schrader: And this one's a longer list, but we've had a few of these open more just to make sure that they get addressed at some point.

213
00:31:17.850 --> 00:31:26.970
Jason Schrader: And it was we had some difficulty in figuring out if we're ready to close them out or not, but I can review this list as well and kind of tag some of the people involved.

214
00:31:27.390 --> 00:31:34.290
Jason Schrader: So I'd say let's plan on our next meeting in two weeks, really digging into these two lists as they're updated.

215
00:31:34.770 --> 00:31:44.850
Jason Schrader: And just seeing if there are other discussion points. And we can also invite some of the people, like for example number 54 was the two or want them and fab Academy stuff that Harold was working on.

216
00:31:45.210 --> 00:31:53.790
Jason Schrader: And I hadn't actually seen an update that on that in a little while. So I'd like to touch base with him and invite him to the next call and say, Hey, you know, are we ready to close this out, that kind of thing.

217
00:31:54.270 --> 00:32:09.210
Jason Schrader: But this also definitely comes back to the, you know, having a lead or somebody to help review and look through these issues and make sure they're updated instead of getting stale or anything else. But yeah, I don't think there's anything. Let me just take a look

218
00:32:11.940 --> 00:32:23.460
Jason Schrader: There's nothing that I would see a supercritical jumping out at me right now. I think it's easier to just let let today's meeting be what it is. And we'll start pushing some of these issues.

219
00:32:23.820 --> 00:32:30.960
Jason Schrader: I'm also considering for the standard operating procedures, since we're moving to this two week cadence. It might be nice at the one week halfway point.

220
00:32:31.560 --> 00:32:39.660
Jason Schrader: Just to send out a general reminder in the governance channel like, hey, this is where you can look, these are the action items. These are discussion items. Remember to add your comments.

221
00:32:40.230 --> 00:32:43.890
Jason Schrader: So I'm going to add something to the standard operating procedures for that as well.

222
00:32:44.550 --> 00:32:55.080
Jason Schrader: And the only other big thing that I have from this list is I'm going to start with the process of creating the agenda, right after the meeting. So we'll create a new agenda after this meeting closes.

223
00:32:55.410 --> 00:33:06.360
Jason Schrader: We can share that with the group right away. We can share it at the one weak point in the middle and then 24 hours before the call, just to hopefully get a little more presence for what we're doing. And when things are happening.

224
00:33:08.520 --> 00:33:24.090
Blockstack Meeting: Well, got it. Yeah, it seems like with a lot of these previous just action items and discussion topics. It is just, it feels like it's a matter of chasing some folks down and seeing whether these projects are are still projects that

225
00:33:25.140 --> 00:33:38.190
Blockstack Meeting: need the support of the governance working group or whether it's something that we want to continue to focus on. So this does give us a reason to sort of personally invite folks back to give an update on on the work in their progress.

226
00:33:39.360 --> 00:33:48.570
Jason Schrader: Well, there's also some really good ideas like looking at that one. We had the town hall meeting for the governance group or just for governance in general, which I thought was a great idea to have a

227
00:33:48.870 --> 00:34:04.590
Jason Schrader: Regular meeting on a set cadence to be a quarterly or just, you know, less often, but similar kind of town hall structure to what PVC see is now just from the foundation side and the other one I saw on there, too, was the fireside chats. You know, like inviting. Some people from other communities.

228
00:34:04.590 --> 00:34:06.630
Jason Schrader: And other areas and other experts.

229
00:34:06.900 --> 00:34:17.430
Jason Schrader: So those that's where our discussion items really landed were things that we didn't want to forget. And I think those still have some relevance as well. But definitely things we can we can kind of skip over for today.

230
00:34:19.890 --> 00:34:21.540
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, great. Um,

231
00:34:22.620 --> 00:34:28.350
Blockstack Meeting: So for the last thing I did add this this grant proposal and you know I preferences to make a decision.

232
00:34:29.490 --> 00:34:30.840
Blockstack Meeting: I think that this is

233
00:34:32.010 --> 00:34:41.970
Blockstack Meeting: I think it's straightforward. I think it can just be sort of a yes no situation because it's not completely eliminating the guy have

234
00:34:42.450 --> 00:34:57.000
Blockstack Meeting: In boxes proposal from this application. It's simply postponing it next quarter. And so that's something that I can, I can share in the discord channel as well. And something that I can get your guys's feedback on

235
00:34:57.840 --> 00:35:08.340
Blockstack Meeting: For me that is actually the blocker right like figuring out the work for that is what's stopping us from submitting this first draft of the application and

236
00:35:09.270 --> 00:35:18.180
Blockstack Meeting: My sense from the team is that it's a pretty big project to take on. It's not impossible to take on this quarter. But because of all the work happening with stacks 2.0 it's

237
00:35:18.810 --> 00:35:29.880
Blockstack Meeting: It's likely that it could get pushed or just like the quality could be compromised, because we don't have enough dedicated time for it. And so any immediate thoughts.

238
00:35:30.960 --> 00:35:37.230
Blockstack Meeting: Jude. I know that you and I talked about this for quite some time. So maybe you have a strong opinion about this.

239
00:35:46.140 --> 00:35:58.950
Jason Schrader: You know, I'll jump in real quick. I know one thing that I asked when we were initially looking over this and I was kind of in and out of the process was about splitting up the the grant proposal into individual grants anyway. And I saw that come up in discord.

240
00:35:59.730 --> 00:36:03.090
Jason Schrader: At one point from somebody else. And I'm not remembering who, at the moment, but

241
00:36:03.390 --> 00:36:14.730
Jason Schrader: I do think that it makes sense, right, like that's our main blocker with the, the guy who have been in boxes portion and that could be broken out into a separate grand. It could be or a separate topic item.

242
00:36:15.060 --> 00:36:20.010
Jason Schrader: And we should move forward with the two that we're ready to move on. So I'm in favor that although yes

243
00:36:21.930 --> 00:36:29.370
Jude Nelson: Yeah, go ahead and split them up. Don't worry, with the guy had been boxes that can be that can be pushed until somebody needs it. So value they can just do it themselves.

244
00:36:30.480 --> 00:36:40.200
Blockstack Meeting: Got it. Yeah. And we actually have a lot laid out for it so that if someone he could actually be a wish list grid like I could just put it out there and encourage someone to pick it up.

245
00:36:41.250 --> 00:36:50.730
Blockstack Meeting: And also encouraged the structure that you and I discussed Jude with having a mentor from the team because I think that that is important so right. Okay.

246
00:36:52.170 --> 00:37:00.180
Blockstack Meeting: Just as a reminder, the other two parts of this proposal where there can be able code of conduct which is honestly the perfect

247
00:37:01.350 --> 00:37:12.750
Blockstack Meeting: It's like the perfect candidate of a project to hand off to a potential lead. So someone who enjoys writing someone who is well versed and governance then feels really strongly about them.

248
00:37:13.140 --> 00:37:24.840
Blockstack Meeting: Stacks ecosystem ethos, the perfect project for someone like that to take on and so I feel strongly about that. Moving on with this proposal and the voting mechanism for sure. This is something that

249
00:37:26.040 --> 00:37:40.500
Blockstack Meeting: Once we sort of get established will just be used forever by the entire ecosystem. And I presume that there are a lot of interesting folks who could take the lead on that in our group and outside of our group as well.

250
00:37:45.240 --> 00:37:45.690
Jason Schrader: I agree.

251
00:37:49.980 --> 00:37:51.480
Jude Nelson: Stacks voting mechanisms.

252
00:37:51.840 --> 00:37:53.310
Jude Nelson: I'm just awesome. The hours in the day.

253
00:37:54.570 --> 00:37:54.810
Jude Nelson: No.

254
00:37:54.870 --> 00:38:12.360
Blockstack Meeting: Don't worry about it, dude. I think a lot is laid out for it, actually. So it there's enough there that it can at least enter the application process. And the next step is approaching community members. So like we've talked about earlier, it's like a it's good practice to approach.

255
00:38:13.410 --> 00:38:16.410
Blockstack Meeting: Potential grant recipients to take the lead on some of these projects.

256
00:38:18.480 --> 00:38:25.230
Blockstack Meeting: Yeah, I don't have any one specific in mind just yet, but we've got a community of very talented people.

257
00:38:26.790 --> 00:38:38.400
Blockstack Meeting: So that was it on my end for this I can socialize all this information and this update in discord and hopefully get approval to just submit this soon.

258
00:38:44.490 --> 00:38:45.450
Jude Nelson: It is

259
00:38:45.510 --> 00:38:47.850
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, yes it is.

260
00:38:48.840 --> 00:38:49.260
And

261
00:38:50.490 --> 00:38:52.350
Jason Schrader: I think progress is a good thing. Let's go for it.

262
00:38:55.680 --> 00:39:13.590
Blockstack Meeting: Oh, and then, you know, I will keep us updated on this other grants for leads for things like pack weeks that time is also blocker. I need to sit down and put together a cohesive strategy, but that does it on my end. Are there any final comments, questions, concerns.

263
00:39:17.340 --> 00:39:19.860
Jason Schrader: I'm good on my end. Thanks everybody for being here.

264
00:39:24.360 --> 00:39:25.800
Ryan Arndt: With me go look up prickly pears.

265
00:39:28.470 --> 00:39:32.700
Blockstack Meeting: Okay, see you later. Thanks for a productive meeting chilly here.

266
00:39:33.900 --> 00:39:34.980
Jason Schrader: All right. Take care everybody

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
