# 20201119 Governance Working Group Call 28

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:11.580 --> 00:00:14.099
Jenny: All right. Do you all see that that agenda.

2
00:00:16.080 --> 00:00:16.379
Jenny: Great.

3
00:00:17.699 --> 00:00:27.240
Jenny: Okay, so let's start with stand ups and I can go first. But I can't see who's on the call. So I can't call people so people just go after me.

4
00:00:28.950 --> 00:00:39.120
Jenny: Yeah. So what is everyone working on right now. Well, I did just review. I was a little slow to this, I think, I think I was a week late to what I said I was going to do. But review the feedback.

5
00:00:39.600 --> 00:00:48.900
Jenny: On our grant application and just come up with a solution for or at least an alternative to our original proposal to build

6
00:00:50.130 --> 00:00:51.960
Jenny: Software for the voting mechanism.

7
00:00:53.070 --> 00:01:03.600
Jenny: Thank you to Harold for your comments about policy kit I think because that looks like a pretty promising alternative or solution that we could look into. So I was just looking into that before this.

8
00:01:04.110 --> 00:01:15.180
Jenny: And right before that closing out some issues that we had already tackled in the last couple of weeks. And what else I also had a conversation with Ross in Jonathan who

9
00:01:15.750 --> 00:01:24.090
Jenny: As you all know, have been working on this bought for for discord this open source bought that should help with decentralized

10
00:01:25.020 --> 00:01:37.590
Jenny: Moderation. And we'll be able to, I mean, well actually, they can test it in discord now. So if you're interested, we can invite you to the test server, but the the big draw of that thought is that

11
00:01:39.660 --> 00:01:46.800
Jenny: All moderation would be transparent, it would be decentralized all community members could take part in it and

12
00:01:47.670 --> 00:02:00.300
Jenny: We would know exactly where that moderation data is going because we set up our own hub for that. So I can, we're also planning to apply for a grant for that thought so.

13
00:02:00.780 --> 00:02:08.850
Jenny: I'll report back on that we have a more solid doc available, but I think we're planning to apply for one next week, so I'll report on that soon.

14
00:02:09.330 --> 00:02:17.460
Jenny: In the government channel but that does it for me. And oh, I see participants. Now, Jason. Would you like to go next. Oh wait, sorry. I have no blockers.

15
00:02:18.300 --> 00:02:35.070
Jenny: And over the next few weeks, as I said, planning to apply for a grant for that bot, and also to submit our credits and open grant application with with new revisions and comments on our proposal. Yeah. Overview Jason

16
00:02:38.370 --> 00:02:39.900
Jason Schrader: Alright so on my end. I

17
00:02:39.930 --> 00:02:51.900
Jason Schrader: Have just been kind of working through some of the GitHub stuff, which is usually where I've lived lately, so just this last week I emerged in a PR that covered some of the standard operating procedures.

18
00:02:52.380 --> 00:03:03.570
Jason Schrader: And I did a major sweep and kind of looked over the content. We have and kind of search around and sit to see what's next. And I've actually applied for a grant as well. I just threw that in there, we'll see it.

19
00:03:04.080 --> 00:03:07.770
Jason Schrader: It's also listed here as an action item. So when we get down there, we'll see a little more detail on it.

20
00:03:08.190 --> 00:03:19.470
Jason Schrader: And the biggest thing that I could use from everyone is just some comments or thumbs up or, you know, if you see something I missed or something you want to add, it's really more of a community effort, but I want to have some focus time to

21
00:03:19.830 --> 00:03:30.930
Jason Schrader: Really get things caught up and to put it in procedure in place. So that's the biggest thing for me coming up over the next two weeks and I don't have any blockers outside of that. And that's it for me.

22
00:03:33.840 --> 00:03:36.660
Jenny: Thanks. Jason apparel electronics

23
00:03:40.500 --> 00:03:40.950
I'm

24
00:03:42.120 --> 00:03:44.070
Harold Davis: Currently on as Jenny mentioned

25
00:03:45.420 --> 00:03:53.250
Harold Davis: Just recently, going over a white paper form policy kid and and looking over some of the possibilities for

26
00:03:54.000 --> 00:04:03.870
Harold Davis: Maybe helping out Jude and all of the work that you know he's involved in with with this may not launch with instead of coming up with application from scratch.

27
00:04:04.740 --> 00:04:16.830
Harold Davis: Looking at what policy kid can do for us. We can get into a little bit more of that later if we want to also have been looking at putting together some type of, I don't know, motion graphics

28
00:04:18.240 --> 00:04:37.110
Harold Davis: For the grant application as well as the the SIP proposal drafts that we've discussed here before as relates to some of the indigenous protocols efforts that we hope to bring into the ecosystem as well as some of the digital fabrication and maker world.

29
00:04:38.160 --> 00:04:43.590
Harold Davis: Merging efforts that we'd like to bring in, I knows a lot going on and on all of those different

30
00:04:45.330 --> 00:04:48.600
Harold Davis: You know documents. So I'd like to put together.

31
00:04:48.660 --> 00:04:49.530
Harold Davis: A graphic on

32
00:04:49.800 --> 00:04:54.480
Harold Davis: Some of my more recent thoughts on you know exactly how we can approach.

33
00:04:55.890 --> 00:04:56.550
Harold Davis: A steam.

34
00:04:58.170 --> 00:05:17.940
Harold Davis: Education prototype with Ron English with all of his expertise and we've been able to narrow down. You know what, exactly, our first approaches can be for a steam education and indigenous mode. So yeah, this is a brief of what I've been working on as if like

35
00:05:19.110 --> 00:05:27.180
Harold Davis: You know, excited to get into this meeting. And here are the stand ups excited them to see these other grant applications come through as well.

36
00:05:30.780 --> 00:05:32.370
Jenny: Ryan, do you like to go next.

37
00:05:34.410 --> 00:05:39.510
Ryan Arndt: Sure. So I'm excited to see Jason's came through, like right Laura on the call. I knew it was coming, but

38
00:05:39.990 --> 00:05:44.910
Ryan Arndt: It's always nice to see them come into your inbox. So thanks for submitting that Jason

39
00:05:46.200 --> 00:05:57.690
Ryan Arndt: Yeah. And same for a herald and yours comes into I'm actually gonna be talking to another steam educator person tomorrow, so I'm gonna send you some information because maybe they might fit in with what you're doing.

40
00:05:58.800 --> 00:06:12.780
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, so we'll see. But also that or discord, but so from my end just getting word out about the grants program and looking at specifically partnerships, especially with that stacks to being where it's at, because some people will want to get

41
00:06:14.040 --> 00:06:18.990
Ryan Arndt: Like they just get hung up on the idea need stacks to whatever. So looking at doing partnerships set of things too.

42
00:06:19.890 --> 00:06:31.170
Ryan Arndt: And so moving forward with that. And if there's any questions from that have be to take recommendations from people, if you have like idea of especially any block chains that are like

43
00:06:31.740 --> 00:06:41.130
Ryan Arndt: Like something related to eat. That's privacy like picking up to three box, for instance, and any of the developers within that space might be interested in grants to so

44
00:06:41.790 --> 00:06:47.970
Ryan Arndt: It was kind of jumping in research in there so Superman ideas if you have anything at all please ping me, let me know. Happy to reach out

45
00:06:50.730 --> 00:07:01.230
Jenny: Thanks, Ryan, I'm gonna skip over Brittany, because I seem that you'll get the foundation update, which is essentially here. Stand up and go over to Juliet ETFs up like to share

46
00:07:08.370 --> 00:07:09.000
Juliet Oberding: Hello.

47
00:07:12.600 --> 00:07:28.410
Juliet Oberding: Okay, you can hear me. Good. Um, so I had, I did take a look at the grant a couple of times and added a little more information just follow up on who was handling, who is going to lead different projects.

48
00:07:29.550 --> 00:07:35.730
Juliet Oberding: So I'm sure you noted that, and then I'm on my own. I'm working on.

49
00:07:36.870 --> 00:07:39.270
Juliet Oberding: a grant proposal that's relevant to smart.

50
00:07:39.270 --> 00:07:43.770
Juliet Oberding: Contracts, so you should see that you should all see that by next Tuesday.

51
00:07:46.140 --> 00:07:46.740
Jenny: They

52
00:07:48.930 --> 00:07:51.720
Jenny: Don't have to didn't have anything to do with clarity tools.

53
00:07:52.830 --> 00:07:53.160
Jenny: Are now.

54
00:07:55.260 --> 00:08:02.100
Juliet Oberding: No, it doesn't have to do it may have some, I mean it's not directly relevant to clarity tools know

55
00:08:03.840 --> 00:08:09.810
Jenny: Period. I think everyone for your stand ups and Brittany, would you like to give your foundation update

56
00:08:12.390 --> 00:08:13.650
Brittany (Stacks.org): My video. Let's see.

57
00:08:15.360 --> 00:08:22.560
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yeah, so the foundation, we've been really working on our grants.

58
00:08:23.730 --> 00:08:34.710
Brittany (Stacks.org): Process and making sure that we have a faster efficient process to approve grants and as we're doing that the number of grants has slowed down. So I'm really happy to hear about all these grants coming in because I think

59
00:08:35.370 --> 00:08:45.690
Brittany (Stacks.org): Some people were formulating their ideas were set up now to make it much faster and easier to get you know your grants reviewed and approved so we still have a weekly cadence.

60
00:08:46.380 --> 00:08:54.180
Brittany (Stacks.org): So yeah, looking forward to reading those on that. And another thing that we're working on the foundation is just around stacks to

61
00:08:54.930 --> 00:09:09.780
Brittany (Stacks.org): Launch so we're supporting some of the other initiatives and ecosystem, including mining so Damon technologies got a grant funded from mining, but so if you're interested in setting up for mining

62
00:09:10.590 --> 00:09:21.750
Brittany (Stacks.org): Either on test net or on maintenance. We will be helping to sponsor. Some of the rewards that will go out to people who are set up on mine. So you don't need

63
00:09:22.740 --> 00:09:30.390
Brittany (Stacks.org): Any heavy equipment you basically can run this mining, but as a way to participate in mining and use the test, etc.

64
00:09:31.050 --> 00:09:41.160
Brittany (Stacks.org): So eventually you'll need real bitcoins of mine on the network. But in the meantime, just testing it out testing for bugs or any issues. That's what we're looking for. And there are rewards for doing that. So,

65
00:09:41.640 --> 00:09:48.810
Brittany (Stacks.org): That can be a good way to get involved too, if you're a little more technical. And then what's next to, you know, we're going to be code complete

66
00:09:49.260 --> 00:10:00.210
Brittany (Stacks.org): December 15 that's the the dead date. So from there, it's just, you know, again, like taking the time to experiment doing testing that smart contracts.

67
00:10:00.570 --> 00:10:09.270
Brittany (Stacks.org): If you want to see anything built. If you're like, wow, if this thing existed, this would be great. There was would be great items for wish list grants as well.

68
00:10:09.510 --> 00:10:17.340
Brittany (Stacks.org): So even if you're not on the technical side of the grants. This could be another way to just kind of throw those ideas out there. So that's another thing we're working on.

69
00:10:18.990 --> 00:10:21.330
Brittany (Stacks.org): My update no blockers.

70
00:10:22.200 --> 00:10:22.710
Jason Schrader: And

71
00:10:22.740 --> 00:10:29.760
Brittany (Stacks.org): The next two weeks. Yeah, hopefully more grants will be in and we'll be able to get feedback on this. Thanks, thanks, Ricky.

72
00:10:30.450 --> 00:10:37.980
Jenny: Are there any questions on any of the on any updates or any of the stand ups I forget we forget to ask that sometimes

73
00:10:39.660 --> 00:10:42.300
Jason Schrader: I know I had a question for wishlist grants.

74
00:10:42.660 --> 00:10:57.690
Jason Schrader: In particular, so you know i know we have a few that are on the list now. So it's kind of a two part question. First is when picking up or if you were going to do a wish list grant, should you comment or update on the existing issue or should you create a new grant and link the two

75
00:10:59.070 --> 00:11:01.080
Jason Schrader: So I'd be the first question. Yeah.

76
00:11:01.620 --> 00:11:07.530
Brittany (Stacks.org): Good question. I think commenting on the existing one works or if you want to issue it as a new

77
00:11:10.140 --> 00:11:18.150
Brittany (Stacks.org): Proposal, because I think some of the specifics of like you know who the team is and what are the milestones. All of that stuff would need

78
00:11:18.930 --> 00:11:27.630
Brittany (Stacks.org): You know, to actually complete a full application level. So maybe creating it as a new one and then linking back is a good way to do that but

79
00:11:28.200 --> 00:11:42.720
Brittany (Stacks.org): That hasn't been tested yet so good. Good question. But I do think maybe make its own grant new grant is easier for us to track, kind of like the grant number and who owns it, and any updates to it up or time. Excellent.

80
00:11:42.870 --> 00:11:45.450
Jason Schrader: And then the other side of that for creating a wish list.

81
00:11:45.450 --> 00:11:54.540
Jason Schrader: Grant. How much information is required. I mean, is it really just get your idea out there. Should there be a basic structure or how, how do you feel about those

82
00:11:56.490 --> 00:11:57.090
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yeah, I think.

83
00:11:58.260 --> 00:11:59.040
Brittany (Stacks.org): We'd rather have

84
00:11:59.130 --> 00:12:00.990
Brittany (Stacks.org): more out there than

85
00:12:01.530 --> 00:12:14.160
Brittany (Stacks.org): Even if they're more concise than people not creating them because they feel like it's like a lot of effort and work defendant put them in there. So we've debated whether we should just have like an open forum.

86
00:12:14.160 --> 00:12:14.730
Ryan Arndt: Post

87
00:12:15.120 --> 00:12:26.760
Brittany (Stacks.org): Where people can put in ideas for wish list and then if there's traction on them, then they can get elevated to like an actual submission to get hub or not. I'd be curious your feedback on that because

88
00:12:27.180 --> 00:12:30.210
Brittany (Stacks.org): Again, it's like something why we're in like the beta phase, like we haven't

89
00:12:30.450 --> 00:12:34.920
Brittany (Stacks.org): fully determined a path, but we do want more rather than less.

90
00:12:36.030 --> 00:12:37.140
Ryan Arndt: I do have the formula.

91
00:12:37.230 --> 00:12:39.600
Ryan Arndt: Is set up, ready to go. So there's people who have

92
00:12:39.750 --> 00:12:46.290
Ryan Arndt: Submitted some in there were just like conversational level. Like, what do you think so. I think there's two or three from conversation before we go.

93
00:12:46.920 --> 00:12:54.690
Brittany (Stacks.org): Perfect. So yeah, let's let's see that you can drop the link Ryan in this chat and then the discard channel first

94
00:12:56.010 --> 00:12:56.160
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yeah.

95
00:12:57.570 --> 00:12:57.840
Jason Schrader: Yeah.

96
00:12:57.900 --> 00:13:08.310
Jason Schrader: Yeah, that'd be great because I finally had an idea. So I was like, All right, how do I get this into, you know, the next phase, and I was starting to look at that, because I just submitted this other grant. Anyway, so that's some great info. Thank you.

97
00:13:12.540 --> 00:13:15.600
Jenny: All right. Shall we move on to action items, everyone.

98
00:13:18.240 --> 00:13:18.660
Okay.

99
00:13:23.820 --> 00:13:25.470
Jenny: Actually okay so

100
00:13:26.910 --> 00:13:41.880
Jenny: I guess we can go through these. First, there were some that I recently closed, and I think it's just worth that I just think are worth reviewing because they were recent issues and say why don't we do that. But after going through these Jason, would you like to go through the top to you.

101
00:13:42.810 --> 00:13:45.360
Jason Schrader: Yes. Yeah, so the the top one, there is

102
00:13:45.360 --> 00:13:48.210
Jason Schrader: Just a kind of a linked issue to the grant that I just put

103
00:13:48.210 --> 00:13:58.680
Jason Schrader: Together. Basically, the idea behind this grant is we know we've done so much as a working group and to stay organized and to live here on GitHub that I would like to

104
00:13:59.040 --> 00:14:06.060
Jason Schrader: Really go through and get things cleaned up mainly like the calls table and establishing a better standard operating procedures because

105
00:14:06.360 --> 00:14:13.200
Jason Schrader: Even though I just updated it. It feels like there's some questions out there you know how and where do we upload the YouTube video and

106
00:14:13.440 --> 00:14:20.730
Jason Schrader: You know, what are we going to use for meeting conference software. And if I wanted to set up a meeting. How do I do it. So some of those questions are answered. Some are still open.

107
00:14:21.360 --> 00:14:33.210
Jason Schrader: And the grant itself is just to make sure I have the time to really dedicate and get things up to date and to try and make a process, much like we have this very simple for anybody to emulate moving forward.

108
00:14:34.080 --> 00:14:48.210
Jason Schrader: So that's really all this one is. And, you know, you're welcome to come in here or comment on the grant, but all the information that the details and the outline of what I'm planning to do are outlined in six milestones in the grant. So that's this one.

109
00:14:51.570 --> 00:14:54.060
Jenny: Should. Should we close this out, Jason.

110
00:14:55.080 --> 00:15:05.520
Jason Schrader: I was gonna leave it. Well, let's leave it open till next meeting. And we'll just kind of see where that grant process goes, because part of the process was requesting community feedback.

111
00:15:06.840 --> 00:15:10.440
Jason Schrader: So I wanted a way to be able to bring it up on this call with the working group.

112
00:15:10.800 --> 00:15:22.050
Jason Schrader: To be able to show it to people on discord and probably after this meeting will say at the one week point if there is some movement or if I've got an idea of what's going on. We can close this out by next meeting, for sure.

113
00:15:22.890 --> 00:15:23.250
Okay.

114
00:15:28.230 --> 00:15:39.540
Jason Schrader: All right. And this was a real quick one. So I submitted a PR recently that I emerged as part of my stand up so that was PR number 100 and the agenda.

115
00:15:40.170 --> 00:15:47.550
Jason Schrader: Meeting templates are issued templates. Didn't work correctly. And it looks like I've got an extra character in there. I just need to add some parentheses.

116
00:15:47.940 --> 00:15:55.920
Jason Schrader: Shouldn't be an easy fix. But lane and, you know, big shout out to lane and figure both they jumped right in and they were like, well, here it is. Here's a little thing to fix.

117
00:15:56.760 --> 00:16:05.550
Jason Schrader: So we'll have that up and running. What this does is when you create a new issue right now, you have the option to select the agenda as a template.

118
00:16:06.210 --> 00:16:16.950
Jason Schrader: And this will also add items for action item discussion item or stacks foundation item, it'll automatically add the label. So just makes life a little easier as you're trying to add things to this repository.

119
00:16:20.160 --> 00:16:23.730
Jenny: Thanks for doing this face, and this does make life a lot easier to say

120
00:16:24.630 --> 00:16:26.670
Jason Schrader: Simple is the goal. That's where we want to be.

121
00:16:28.380 --> 00:16:31.440
Jenny: Okay, and we want to keep this open really want to close it.

122
00:16:32.070 --> 00:16:34.740
Jason Schrader: And this one will be open until it's fixed. Okay.

123
00:16:37.530 --> 00:16:42.660
Jenny: All right. And this one and and quickly go over it. Thank you both. I

124
00:16:43.890 --> 00:16:57.840
Jenny: Thank you for the inspiration indeed did inspire. I think I opened up another issue for this where I got longer commentary from both Ryan and Harold, but I'm blanking on where it is, it might be in

125
00:16:58.650 --> 00:17:10.470
Jenny: Meeting discuss. No, actually it's here when everything. It just wasn't loading. And yeah, thank you for this just to scroll through and let everyone see all the great feedback I got an update on this is that

126
00:17:11.010 --> 00:17:18.540
Jenny: I did actually have a call with an agency last week, called creator house and there weren't enough, working with us on a bunch of may net

127
00:17:19.080 --> 00:17:35.520
Jenny: Launch things and one of their deliverables is an ecosystem graphic. So this conversation was helpful for me in talking that person through what we're looking for, as well as a proof of transfer graphic. So I'm actually really excited about that because I feel like

128
00:17:36.540 --> 00:17:44.190
Jenny: We're all so embedded in our ecosystem. And so familiar with proof of transfer at this point that we all have a hard time

129
00:17:44.820 --> 00:18:01.860
Jenny: Explaining both of those things in a way that makes sense to someone who's not familiar with stacks at all. So I had a really long and productive conversation with this designer and I for the proof of transfer one, which wasn't addressing this issue.

130
00:18:03.060 --> 00:18:14.670
Jenny: Will have like two separate diagram. I'm just one for my one for minors on for stackers and the diagrams and also come together to show proof transfer. And I think that that will be

131
00:18:15.630 --> 00:18:20.070
Jenny: Next to wherever we decide to publish them will be right next to the ecosystem graphic and

132
00:18:20.610 --> 00:18:27.150
Jenny: Both will be super helpful for educating new users and new members. So thank you all for your feedback on this and

133
00:18:27.510 --> 00:18:38.850
Jenny: I am so excited to show you that the mockups whenever we get them. I think that they are scheduled to come in around December 4 so I'll be sure to update this this issue with that when I when I get them.

134
00:18:42.990 --> 00:18:46.350
Jenny: Again, this is really great hair. Oh, by the way, super helpful.

135
00:18:49.380 --> 00:18:49.740
Jenny: Okay.

136
00:18:52.620 --> 00:19:06.930
Jenny: Review one page. So I just put this action item up for everyone else in the group Errol did you, did you want to talk about this or is there further feedback that you want in support of this this issue.

137
00:19:07.920 --> 00:19:13.230
Harold Davis: You can talk about it briefly. Um, yeah, thank you for bringing it up again and

138
00:19:14.400 --> 00:19:30.840
Harold Davis: Yeah, I know that the best thing for this may be actual calls and where the individual or group. I'm sorry, I'm still looking forward to that. I have somewhat of a group, this Court set up so I know I can reach out to folks and get availabilities

139
00:19:31.890 --> 00:19:34.500
Harold Davis: But it's also, I just wanted to say here that

140
00:19:36.000 --> 00:19:44.940
Harold Davis: You know there is a slight distinction between these one pagers here and the grant proposal draft window where and that is that

141
00:19:45.510 --> 00:19:57.300
Harold Davis: These are meant to be turned into actual separate proposals, eventually, and the grant proposal destined from these, but it's a separate thing in a town.

142
00:19:58.110 --> 00:20:06.270
Harold Davis: So I just wanted to say that, but thank you kindly again, Jenny. Jenny for putting this up for us. And I'll be in touch with with folks to

143
00:20:07.110 --> 00:20:08.700
Harold Davis: To be a little bit

144
00:20:08.760 --> 00:20:10.110
Harold Davis: Proactive on my side to

145
00:20:10.140 --> 00:20:22.380
Harold Davis: Get some feedback from folks on all of the different things going on in, you know, on the digital fabrication side of things, as well as the indigenous protocols side of things. So, yeah.

146
00:20:26.910 --> 00:20:27.720
Jenny: Hey, Jason.

147
00:20:31.530 --> 00:20:36.540
Jason Schrader: Alright, so this is just another quick little issue. We were running into with Dr. FI

148
00:20:36.570 --> 00:20:38.400
Jason Schrader: On some of our pages that we

149
00:20:38.400 --> 00:20:52.470
Jason Schrader: Have hosted so if you go if you were to go to actual stats to GitHub com slash resources you would get the resources repo and web page form. And right now, some of the links to like local PDF files or resulting in

150
00:20:53.580 --> 00:20:56.340
Jason Schrader: So this is something that I have on my list to look at

151
00:20:56.670 --> 00:21:06.090
Jason Schrader: But it's also part of why I'm filing the grant because some of the stuff I can get in and fix real quick. But then another issue comes up and I want to have that time to like fix it.

152
00:21:06.450 --> 00:21:14.970
Jason Schrader: Really test. It really get into it, go a little deeper. So this one is just an open issue at this time and is something that I'm working towards fixing

153
00:21:18.330 --> 00:21:24.780
Jenny: And lane isn't here. Do we want to go into this at all. We're talking about this or should we save it for lane is on

154
00:21:26.700 --> 00:21:34.770
Jason Schrader: I'm just curious about the links in there, kind of related to the policy kit conversation we were having earlier. I think that

155
00:21:35.820 --> 00:21:47.610
Jason Schrader: Yeah policy kit is in here as well. So that comes from the Meetup group, and that would be somewhat related to those items were talking about with the grant and developing the voting proposal.

156
00:21:49.140 --> 00:21:54.060
Jason Schrader: But aside from that, I don't have much more to add from here, from this issue directly

157
00:21:55.290 --> 00:21:58.350
Jason Schrader: Okay. Um, I think what I can do is I can think this

158
00:21:58.410 --> 00:22:02.520
Jenny: This issue in the voting methods miss you. Just for reference.

159
00:22:04.470 --> 00:22:05.250
Jason Schrader: number in there.

160
00:22:06.300 --> 00:22:07.920
Jason Schrader: Automatically great

161
00:22:11.760 --> 00:22:14.760
Jenny: Okay, good to talk about these two cases.

162
00:22:17.220 --> 00:22:22.530
Jason Schrader: Actually, sure. So this one I actually included as part of the grants as well. And this is something

163
00:22:22.560 --> 00:22:35.040
Jason Schrader: That we've talked about before we were looking at possibly having instead of it being this big long url@github.io I could use a sub domain@stacks.org so it would be resources that stacks or

164
00:22:35.820 --> 00:22:42.900
Jason Schrader: We could also use another domain or something different. If we wanted it to be separate, but that was this is more of an infrastructure type item.

165
00:22:43.260 --> 00:22:50.670
Jason Schrader: It was not possible at the time. I do not know if it's possible. Now, but I said it forth as part of the six week schedule of the grant.

166
00:22:51.060 --> 00:23:02.430
Jason Schrader: So we can try again. And so this one will remain open until either an action is taken, or we decide we're not going to go this route, but no, nothing is needed at this time for for input on it.

167
00:23:05.790 --> 00:23:08.490
Jenny: Oh, and this week, we've talked about

168
00:23:12.180 --> 00:23:16.650
Jenny: It, we've talked to Jason, if you want to add any details here. I think we're pretty familiar with this issue.

169
00:23:17.100 --> 00:23:20.640
Jason Schrader: Sure. So at the end of this one, we decided that we could at least move

170
00:23:20.640 --> 00:23:29.760
Jason Schrader: Forward with a shared zoom pro account for now and keep things as they are and then if we wanted to make any changes in the future. We could migrate and do so as far as our recordings

171
00:23:30.810 --> 00:23:38.790
Jason Schrader: The last month, we actually left off with this Ryan, did you have any update on some kind of community account or something we can all use together.

172
00:23:41.100 --> 00:23:46.050
Ryan Arndt: I know it's something that like bringing I talked about for the Britain was on the call. Last time to mention is definitely what we can do.

173
00:23:49.170 --> 00:23:57.120
Jason Schrader: Okay, so that would be basically we just want to make sure we put good operating procedures around it like here's how you access it. Here's how you moderated and some of those basics, but

174
00:23:57.870 --> 00:24:06.990
Jason Schrader: That's why this one's still open. And I think there's not much more. We're going to add until we actually have the product in hand and we're ready to show it to everybody, so

175
00:24:08.850 --> 00:24:17.220
Ryan Arndt: So it's probably easiest for me or bringing it to sign up for that share the key kind of things once protocol setup.

176
00:24:17.730 --> 00:24:31.530
Jason Schrader: Yeah, exactly. And, and I do as part of the grant. I want to look at, you know, how we can manage who has access to what and and keep that list and just keep that top of mind, because if somebody wants to come in and help. We want to give them that ability and we don't want

177
00:24:31.890 --> 00:24:44.460
Jason Schrader: Something like oh you you need 10 steps to get set up in, zoom, that's only done by one person is kind of a blogger. But if that's where we start, that's where we start and we'll make it better. As we go as well. So that's, that's where this one leaves off. Okay.

178
00:24:45.570 --> 00:24:46.680
Jenny: And if it is

179
00:24:47.910 --> 00:24:51.270
Jenny: If we're not against it. I actually just upgraded my, my personal account.

180
00:24:52.470 --> 00:24:55.350
Jenny: Just because I kind of anticipated meeting it for things like this.

181
00:24:56.400 --> 00:25:09.210
Jenny: And I was messing around with him last night and I think that you can make it so that you set up certain Members as admins for a specific meeting. So if we wanted to, we could use mine since

182
00:25:10.350 --> 00:25:18.660
Jenny: Ryan, Brittany, you haven't upgraded your account yet. But yeah, if we want like just a straightforward community account, then we don't do that.

183
00:25:22.470 --> 00:25:30.690
Jason Schrader: And I'm not picky on that. The biggest thing is how we do our recordings, like, one of the things I'm going to have to go back and do now is, look at what we're missing in the call table.

184
00:25:31.110 --> 00:25:40.020
Jason Schrader: And want to find the recordings for each video which ones have been downloaded which ones haven't if I didn't download them. Where do they live. So some of those questions come into play.

185
00:25:40.530 --> 00:25:48.930
Jason Schrader: But I don't see it being much different using yours or using one from the foundation as long as we have an easy way for other people to moderate and be a part of it.

186
00:25:49.950 --> 00:25:51.360
Jenny: Well, let me just put a note here.

187
00:25:51.360 --> 00:25:51.720
Then

188
00:25:59.940 --> 00:26:01.860
Ryan Arndt: In Brittany. Do you have a preference either way.

189
00:26:04.440 --> 00:26:09.900
Brittany (Stacks.org): We have at the foundation. We do have an upgraded account. So we pay for our account. So I think we can add admins.

190
00:26:10.920 --> 00:26:12.060
Brittany (Stacks.org): Notch

191
00:26:16.230 --> 00:26:22.590
Brittany (Stacks.org): How restricted those like if they're hosting a meeting if it gets really restricted because I think

192
00:26:24.660 --> 00:26:28.680
Brittany (Stacks.org): If they are three accounts, they might get max 45 minutes

193
00:26:29.850 --> 00:26:36.330
Brittany (Stacks.org): An allocation. There's some things. So yeah, we could we could test and set one up and just have it be like community.

194
00:26:38.160 --> 00:26:40.590
Brittany (Stacks.org): But that would then be used by multiple people so

195
00:26:41.580 --> 00:26:43.260
Jenny: I can have it up. Yeah.

196
00:26:43.830 --> 00:26:52.830
Jenny: Awesome. I think you can add you can basically add different users or like you can add members to a group and just adjust their privileges for

197
00:26:53.160 --> 00:27:06.660
Jenny: Specific meetings I could be wrong, but I was looking at this and I had no idea. Zoom settings were so granular but I think that there is a way to do this just for one type of meeting. So yeah, I can, I can help you take a look and set us up for that.

198
00:27:07.860 --> 00:27:09.330
Brittany (Stacks.org): Cool, let's do that. Sure.

199
00:27:13.710 --> 00:27:14.100
Jenny: Okay.

200
00:27:14.580 --> 00:27:20.100
Jenny: So that is it for and meeting action items. Let's go over to

201
00:27:25.650 --> 00:27:25.980
Jenny: This

202
00:27:30.480 --> 00:27:31.680
Discussion items.

203
00:27:34.440 --> 00:27:40.110
Jenny: Yeah, I think we can go here, go through these pretty quickly and

204
00:27:40.920 --> 00:27:50.070
Jenny: This isn't high priority, but with like the new stacks branding. I was wondering whether you wanted to update our governance branding at all to reflect this new branding.

205
00:27:50.520 --> 00:27:59.940
Jenny: And again, not a priority. I like the design that we have on our repo. But if we wanted to take advantage of any of the new design resources and

206
00:28:01.440 --> 00:28:02.790
Jenny: There's an opportunity there.

207
00:28:04.410 --> 00:28:11.370
Jenny: Anyone have any strong feelings about this. It could be a backlog item. If not, if you don't have any strong feelings about this right now. I

208
00:28:11.460 --> 00:28:19.830
Jason Schrader: Yeah, I vote yes and I turned in my grant application as well to kind of look at the stacks design come up with something new and throw it back at the community for input.

209
00:28:20.310 --> 00:28:29.730
Jason Schrader: The, the icon reusing now was honestly just the the output of a package called J dental icon that lets you generate icons. It was something that figure found way back

210
00:28:30.450 --> 00:28:40.110
Jason Schrader: So I had generate an icon. I liked how it had triangles and it kind of looked like the the box deck logo and we used it, but it was nothing that I know I'm not particularly committed to it so

211
00:28:40.440 --> 00:28:42.810
Jason Schrader: If we can do something with the new branding, I think it would show

212
00:28:42.810 --> 00:28:44.820
Jason Schrader: That you know our groups in alignment, it would be

213
00:28:44.820 --> 00:28:45.390
Jenny: A nice

214
00:28:45.780 --> 00:28:51.780
Jason Schrader: Kind of signal. But again, it's not a. It's not a high priority item, but I think it would still be really nice to have.

215
00:28:52.800 --> 00:28:53.160
Jason Schrader: Okay.

216
00:28:53.850 --> 00:28:57.420
Jenny: Yeah, I think the the guidelines are pretty straightforward. So

217
00:28:58.800 --> 00:29:15.510
Jenny: With the, the Nexus, the logo and the, I think the, the idea is that different entities, including the community groups and projects can use the Nexus, but put it in a different shape. So, you know, with here. Oh, it's a hexagon.

218
00:29:17.070 --> 00:29:25.410
Jenny: And I think with actually don't know. She said there's these children yet, but we can, if we want it to go. Simple, we could do something like that where we chose our shape but

219
00:29:26.220 --> 00:29:37.740
Jenny: Yeah, I'll keep this this issue up and we can put videos here. It's not a priority, maybe it's something that we want to get done by the time mean that launches, or something.

220
00:29:41.190 --> 00:29:54.030
Jason Schrader: That's that sounds reasonable to me to me and I mean if anybody has any ideas. Okay. I want to use this shape or this is how I would mock it up like, feel free to throw it in there, you know, definitely, if they want anyone to be involved to whatever capacity they want to be.

221
00:29:58.170 --> 00:30:06.840
Jenny: Another I mentioned this earlier in my stand up. Thank you. Harold for for adding context here about policy hit so per

222
00:30:07.800 --> 00:30:15.060
Jenny: Okay, so basically the the feedback on this milestone that we included for the voting mechanism project is that

223
00:30:16.050 --> 00:30:37.230
Jenny: Might be a little ambitious for us to build. So some voting open source software ourselves, especially if we're going to rely on Jude for technical expertise and skill and we're getting pretty close to the end of Q1 2021 timeline. Anyway, so, because that's ambitious.

224
00:30:38.250 --> 00:30:47.100
Jenny: I think one of the things that we talked about in our last meeting was perhaps just scrapping that software goal and instead

225
00:30:48.390 --> 00:30:51.210
Jenny: Well, actually, that's as far as we got so

226
00:30:53.430 --> 00:30:56.640
Jenny: I so Harold's suggested that

227
00:30:57.690 --> 00:31:06.810
Jenny: We something like policy kit which we could integrate with this quarter second Harold. I don't know if you want to add any like details or context to explain this little better than I am now.

228
00:31:07.650 --> 00:31:26.010
Harold Davis: Yeah. Um, yeah, it's originally made for platforms like discord a slug. But when I was looking through a white paper, it seems like it's built to fit around any platform that you want as long as it has some important things like you know an off some type of

229
00:31:27.390 --> 00:31:37.080
Harold Davis: Can you know, build into news to build their, their particular API into the othon storage and stuff like this. And so I think that

230
00:31:37.590 --> 00:31:48.360
Harold Davis: Just because of what we've seen free to do with some, you know, beautiful chat clients that use us with his ally chat. I was familiar with, you know, you know, just slapping

231
00:31:49.170 --> 00:31:58.770
Harold Davis: You know stacks ecosystem on on top of, you know, a nice client and some of the nice things you can have storage wise and and you know profile wise and so

232
00:32:00.780 --> 00:32:17.550
Harold Davis: that stuck out to me and and as I looked for further it seemed like it's pretty expressive in the White Paper, for example, attend to your question a little bit Jenny about, you know, can I do anything past I'm passing fail. I saw this on this particular thing ahead about

233
00:32:19.950 --> 00:32:27.840
Harold Davis: In their in their homepage. There's some type of interface that they have a policy get homepage, where there's an empty document for

234
00:32:27.870 --> 00:32:30.540
Harold Davis: For each users that use the integration and

235
00:32:32.490 --> 00:32:43.170
Harold Davis: They, they put forth these policies that are a part of this policy kit platform so that you can actually have people add to the document like a code of conduct or something like this.

236
00:32:43.920 --> 00:32:56.370
Harold Davis: Based on, you know, you know, whatever, whatever your community feels are the appropriate steps for contributions and and so, um, it seems like that that can help us.

237
00:32:57.390 --> 00:33:12.600
Harold Davis: For anything that we need beyond just simple check and pass, although it seems like that can get pretty expressive to with what you can write in the actual policy and the code. And so it seems like with the author and a listener for

238
00:33:13.890 --> 00:33:21.660
Harold Davis: You know notifications or messages is all you need. And on the application side to be able to integrate policy kit. So I was really looking hoping that maybe

239
00:33:22.290 --> 00:33:33.660
Harold Davis: Block survey. I don't know. You know how much is there in terms of notifications on that or you know on the admin side of things when you're actually, you know, doing

240
00:33:34.440 --> 00:33:41.970
Harold Davis: You know pose and things like this unblock survey, but that may be an option. And there's also a a discord bridge. I know in the

241
00:33:42.450 --> 00:33:42.900
Harold Davis: In the

242
00:33:43.410 --> 00:33:47.670
Harold Davis: application client that free grammar is leverage with with stacks already so

243
00:33:48.030 --> 00:34:01.920
Harold Davis: I'm always looking, you know, I didn't mentioned in the blockers earlier, but I was looking at maybe I can look into talking with free group will see her reading about, you know, what's their unblock survey or was there on on the, I think.

244
00:34:03.000 --> 00:34:18.480
Harold Davis: The Matrix communities moved away from the particular client that figure was using, but there may be some advantages to sticking with the client that trigger was using as well so amazing, talking with them soon about, you know, what's possible with policy with more technical know how

245
00:34:19.890 --> 00:34:20.460
Harold Davis: Insights.

246
00:34:21.480 --> 00:34:22.950
Jenny: Okay, great. Thank you.

247
00:34:22.980 --> 00:34:36.660
Jenny: For giving that context, Harold. It does look really promising. And I do think. So with that in mind, but I was thinking is that the majority of the work for this voting mechanism proposal is

248
00:34:37.380 --> 00:34:41.640
Jenny: testing different voting mechanisms to be to begin with. So

249
00:34:42.300 --> 00:34:55.650
Jenny: Selecting a few tests and testing them with our community. That seems to be the priority, and I assume that it will take the majority of the time that we have any way and then rather than being ambitious and trying to build out software ourselves by the end of

250
00:34:57.300 --> 00:35:01.290
Jenny: Q1 2021 a goal could instead be

251
00:35:02.970 --> 00:35:17.760
Jenny: Identifying through research some possible integrations, like the one that you mentioned was policy kit instead of like building it ourselves if we do get to building it, it would be a bonus, but the the hard deliverable would be

252
00:35:18.960 --> 00:35:21.240
Jenny: Having a plan in place for building that out.

253
00:35:22.620 --> 00:35:24.060
Jenny: In q1 q2.

254
00:35:30.450 --> 00:35:30.870
Jenny: Think

255
00:35:38.640 --> 00:35:47.010
Jason Schrader: I think it's important to leverage what's out there. So, you know, if we think that policy kid does match up as a good fit for that. And I think it makes sense to kind of

256
00:35:47.340 --> 00:35:53.550
Jason Schrader: Steer that direction instead. But I'd have to dig into it a little bit myself. I haven't had a chance to fully review this yet.

257
00:35:54.810 --> 00:35:55.950
Jenny: To be clear, this is a

258
00:35:57.750 --> 00:36:05.850
Jenny: My suggestion is that we go with Paul. My suggestion is that we scrap this goal of actually building out software ourselves.

259
00:36:07.080 --> 00:36:13.320
Jenny: In the timeline that we've laid out for ourselves and instead do all the testing that we

260
00:36:13.800 --> 00:36:19.170
Jenny: Say that we want to do with community on a voting mechanism and have that be the focus of the grant.

261
00:36:19.470 --> 00:36:32.700
Jenny: And at the end of it actually do some research on how we can build that out, rather than like trying to deliver it rush and deliver that by the end of Q1 2021 because with the launch of me net and especially if we're sort of leaning on Jude for some

262
00:36:33.810 --> 00:36:36.660
Jenny: Advising and like technical skill.

263
00:36:38.070 --> 00:36:43.620
Jenny: I assume that they will be pretty pressed for time, even after me net launches.

264
00:36:45.660 --> 00:36:48.240
Harold Davis: So one of the things that I'm excited about is

265
00:36:48.330 --> 00:36:50.100
Harold Davis: You know, some of the things that you'd mentioned

266
00:36:50.220 --> 00:36:52.020
Harold Davis: You know integrity wise for the community.

267
00:36:53.190 --> 00:36:59.400
Harold Davis: You know, related to go black stuck names and stuff. It may be possible with the policy kit with how expressive, it gets

268
00:36:59.730 --> 00:37:03.690
Harold Davis: With the policies that you can make it seems like you can do a lot of the important quorum stuff.

269
00:37:04.050 --> 00:37:19.740
Harold Davis: That that Jude was interested in pursuing and some of the other good stuff that he mentioned in his presentation. So I've linked that there as well. So, yeah. And I'm interested in seeing if it just works as well if it's possible. So yeah, same, same.

270
00:37:22.800 --> 00:37:24.960
Jenny: Thing. Okay, well, if there are no

271
00:37:26.010 --> 00:37:32.070
Jenny: Objections I think what I can do is respond to Brittany's feedback on our grant application that

272
00:37:33.390 --> 00:37:40.170
Jenny: With these changes. They sound like pretty small changes, we could make. And then obviously once accepted.

273
00:37:40.590 --> 00:37:53.910
Jenny: Harold as the lead of this particular project. We could build out some sort of project management timeline and include research and like perhaps testing of something like policy kit and others to give us give ourselves some options.

274
00:37:55.470 --> 00:37:58.590
Jenny: So I'll include that in the comments here it says, I never good to everyone.

275
00:38:01.620 --> 00:38:03.330
Alright, sounds good to me. Cool.

276
00:38:06.660 --> 00:38:11.820
Jenny: I don't remember why this sloping. I think I kept it open. Just because we discussed it before this.

277
00:38:12.780 --> 00:38:18.990
Jenny: Just to remind everyone, we have identified leads for these projects so Harold will be leading

278
00:38:19.860 --> 00:38:37.110
Jenny: The voting mechanism project and Juliet will be the being the Code of Conduct development. So that is a closed issue, which is why we don't see it here, but any. I don't know the Herald urgently want to speak to that at all, or whether there's a need for them to speak to that at all.

279
00:38:44.970 --> 00:38:45.540
Jenny: No. Okay.

280
00:38:49.530 --> 00:38:56.970
Jenny: This has been up for a while. I don't a piece. And do we have a process for just putting some of these issues on like a like a backlog.

281
00:38:58.710 --> 00:39:07.530
Jason Schrader: Not. Yeah, but that's a, that's an interesting thing to kind of bring up would be there, especially now that we have the notification is coming in discord.

282
00:39:08.310 --> 00:39:12.030
Jason Schrader: We could probably come up with some sort of label and then something that I

283
00:39:12.570 --> 00:39:21.270
Jason Schrader: Wrote down that's used in other repositories is after so much time of inactivity something can automatically be march sale and automatically closed.

284
00:39:22.020 --> 00:39:28.020
Jason Schrader: In a sense that you could always come back and open it again. Or if people are actually having conversations, then it should stay open.

285
00:39:28.830 --> 00:39:39.840
Jason Schrader: So we can look at that for sort of a future management type thing. But yeah, this one I haven't heard any any new information on it in quite a while. So it'd be nice if we had

286
00:39:39.840 --> 00:39:41.850
Jenny: A way to mark that okay

287
00:39:42.420 --> 00:39:49.110
Jason Schrader: Although I think there was a comment at the end from trigger recently actually

288
00:39:51.360 --> 00:39:53.130
Jason Schrader: Remembering that. Yeah, see, so we

289
00:39:55.320 --> 00:39:58.800
Jason Schrader: Started to think of like what we would use for certain sub domains and stuff. OK.

290
00:40:02.550 --> 00:40:02.880
OK.

291
00:40:05.820 --> 00:40:09.690
Jason Schrader: OK, I think, I don't have anything to add on this one. Okay.

292
00:40:12.870 --> 00:40:18.120
Jenny: Jason I see these roles. Do you want to talk about them. It included them in your great application.

293
00:40:19.080 --> 00:40:28.260
Jason Schrader: Yeah, and just trying to figure out the, the best way to break up the work and make things easy for people. So these roles. They've been open for a little while, but just thinking through

294
00:40:28.620 --> 00:40:41.160
Jason Schrader: How we can kind of divide up some of the responsibilities in an easy way following that one. And I'll just hit some of these high level real quick because I know like the one following those two roles was are talking about having a town hall meeting.

295
00:40:42.270 --> 00:40:52.560
Jason Schrader: On a regular basis. I think everybody was a fan of that. We just hadn't really decided on the timeline or how we would implement it. What we do or what software. What we do it over like crowd cast or something else.

296
00:40:53.700 --> 00:41:03.480
Jason Schrader: And the working group roadmap following that, actually, can you jump into that one. I'm not even remembering what it is anymore, real quick here.

297
00:41:05.460 --> 00:41:12.090
Jason Schrader: Okay, so this was yeah this is more like a general overview of things we could do and what we could do with the project.

298
00:41:14.460 --> 00:41:24.720
Jason Schrader: I don't have anything to add to this, but I will include this as something to kind of look over as part of that grant and I'm actually going to link it in right now, so I don't forget about that one.

299
00:41:30.870 --> 00:41:33.420
Jenny: Okay, can move on to this one.

300
00:41:33.510 --> 00:41:39.090
Jason Schrader: Yeah, and I don't have anything else to add, now, but this is this is partly why I want to get things cleaned up is finding

301
00:41:39.510 --> 00:41:50.160
Jason Schrader: Either a way to deal with some of these older issues so they can be on a backlog and be visible or possibly closing them out and waiting until we open new ones kind of depending on what each one's about

302
00:41:53.910 --> 00:41:56.490
Jenny: Earlier. So I think we can go over that here.

303
00:41:59.340 --> 00:42:06.450
Jenny: There you go. Good. Okay. Um, Fireside Chat series I recall there being some interest in this.

304
00:42:07.650 --> 00:42:12.540
Jenny: Lane opened it a while, a while ago, though. I don't know if it's something we feel like we can take on

305
00:42:14.490 --> 00:42:18.540
Jason Schrader: When I think it was something that actually the last time we talked about it, it went well with the town hall.

306
00:42:19.080 --> 00:42:29.520
Jason Schrader: So if we were to do a town hall where we had a speaker. And then we could do some high level public updates for for what we're up to the two would work nicely together.

307
00:42:30.090 --> 00:42:39.630
Jason Schrader: But aside from that, this was just a placeholder either for who we think should be in the in the chats, or when we should hold them or what we would do. And I don't have any additional updates beyond that.

308
00:42:40.770 --> 00:42:41.100
Jenny: Okay.

309
00:42:44.550 --> 00:42:47.070
Jenny: Oh, okay. This last vacation.

310
00:42:49.380 --> 00:42:56.220
Jason Schrader: Sure. So, number of number 33 and it yeah this is interesting. So number 33 was just kind of the

311
00:42:57.150 --> 00:43:11.670
Jason Schrader: The idea that it would be great if we could all share a stacks ID, somehow, and there is really no mechanism for that at this at this time and it's a tricky problem because obviously, you know, not your keys, not your data.

312
00:43:11.790 --> 00:43:16.860
Jason Schrader: And we want to be able to share it. But once it's shared, there's no way to revoke it. So I think there's a lot of

313
00:43:18.660 --> 00:43:33.180
Jason Schrader: Concepts in this, but I don't know where we would take this as next steps. So I've kept it open. I've asked for some feedback and gotten a little bit, but I don't have a direction to act on this just yet. So just be an open issue for them. Okay.

314
00:43:35.400 --> 00:43:38.400
Jenny: Thanks. I just translations and can you get server room.

315
00:43:40.020 --> 00:43:50.190
Jason Schrader: Yeah so languages and translations was just a reminder to us when we did the survey. We learned that we weren't reaching everybody because the more we can be multilingual, the better and

316
00:43:50.670 --> 00:43:57.720
Jason Schrader: It's just something that as we're moving forward with initiatives, how can we meet that and then the final one for the community observer role that

317
00:43:59.160 --> 00:44:10.710
Jason Schrader: You know, we went to close it and I forgot. Someone asked if we if we can keep it open. So I want to maybe we can throw that by the group again this week and just say, is there any reason to keep this open or

318
00:44:11.460 --> 00:44:17.070
Jason Schrader: Does this still exist is something we need at this stage, given that the foundation is up and running.

319
00:44:18.930 --> 00:44:25.230
Jason Schrader: I am not sure where to take this one but it'd be nice, probably to get it closed and off our list. If we could

320
00:44:25.650 --> 00:44:33.120
Jason Schrader: Okay. And it probably plays into the idea of the community board seat would be the what supersedes this in my opinion.

321
00:44:34.260 --> 00:44:37.470
Jenny: Yeah, I was gonna say a similar thing. I think this was originally when

322
00:44:38.520 --> 00:44:51.270
Jenny: There were law closed calls and we wanted to have a community member represent us during those calls. But yeah, this seems to feed into the board seat, which I actually don't have an update on

323
00:44:54.150 --> 00:45:00.000
Ryan Arndt: There's going to be a board AMA on the fourth of December to access foundation org

324
00:45:02.550 --> 00:45:03.780
Ryan Arndt: Let's do the community board seat.

325
00:45:09.990 --> 00:45:16.020
Jenny: So that does it for our discussion items. We've done well with time. Are there any other

326
00:45:17.160 --> 00:45:20.340
Jenny: Discussion points that folks want to bring up

327
00:45:34.080 --> 00:45:36.180
Jenny: Okay, I'll take that silent personnel.

328
00:45:37.350 --> 00:45:39.090
Jenny: I guess like just just to wrap up.

329
00:45:39.150 --> 00:45:47.220
Jenny: We obviously went through our meeting action items and session items I think some things to highlight our

330
00:45:47.820 --> 00:46:00.960
Jenny: Our grant application. We have chosen to lead for those projects Juliet and Harold thank you again for volunteering and we'll make a small adjustment to our goals for the voting mechanism project.

331
00:46:01.590 --> 00:46:11.400
Jenny: Jason has also put together an awesome grant application to address all of the the cleanup an organization that's required for

332
00:46:12.540 --> 00:46:25.110
Jenny: Just all of our governance resources that we've accumulated over the past year. And what else am I missing Brittany gave the foundation update. I think one thing to note there is that

333
00:46:26.130 --> 00:46:29.100
Jenny: In today's news, the main net

334
00:46:30.270 --> 00:46:47.490
Jenny: Has been set to launch or a January 14 with it, reaching code completion by December 15 which essentially means that it's, it will be done by then and that extra month will be used for thorough testing with partners and exchanges, it's actually, it's a pretty big deal.

335
00:46:48.600 --> 00:46:58.470
Jenny: That that period is there because it will give miners have a big opportunity to get prepped for the official launch date. I don't know if that's something that is

336
00:46:59.640 --> 00:47:00.720
Jenny: That the governance group.

337
00:47:02.460 --> 00:47:03.510
Jenny: Has the interest in

338
00:47:04.560 --> 00:47:21.090
Jenny: Or like wants to discuss. But I think it's worth reminding everyone that once the network launches on January 14 it will be truly decentralized. I don't think any entity will have the power to make any changes and independent miners will be the ones to facilitate that and

339
00:47:22.650 --> 00:47:35.100
Jenny: As Britney mentioned there is a pretty hefty stacks reward going out to cover preparation of miners. I think it's a million stacks. So it's actually, it's huge and

340
00:47:36.300 --> 00:47:37.950
Jenny: Yeah, I feel like it's

341
00:47:39.120 --> 00:47:43.470
Jenny: A related governance issue, but it's, there's nothing outstanding for us to trust right now.

342
00:47:45.330 --> 00:47:46.380
Any questions.

343
00:47:52.560 --> 00:47:53.670
Jason Schrader: I think we're good.

344
00:47:55.530 --> 00:47:56.610
Jenny: Alright thanks everybody.

345
00:47:57.690 --> 00:48:00.630
Jenny: See you in two weeks or so. Yeah.

346
00:48:01.200 --> 00:48:02.550
Jason Schrader: Thanks, everyone.

347
00:48:04.230 --> 00:48:04.920
Harold Davis: Thank you, buddy.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
