# 20210121 Governance Working Group Call 32

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:02.190 --> 00:00:14.820
Jenny: Hey everyone is Thursday, January 21 2021 2PM Eastern 7pm UTC I think sometimes we felt that wrong in the past. I'm pretty sure that's right

2
00:00:16.529 --> 00:00:22.950
Jenny: And it's a good day because it's exactly a week after the main that launch. So I'm sure all of us are still

3
00:00:24.450 --> 00:00:38.100
Jenny: Riding High from that big event. This is working group call in number 32 and I am joined by Harold Jason Sean Jude Ryan Dan in Todd. Yeah.

4
00:00:39.120 --> 00:00:46.830
Jenny: So with that, unless there's something urgent. We'll go right into stand ups and I will just go through setups based on who I see

5
00:00:48.240 --> 00:00:57.180
Jenny: On my zoom list. So the first person is Harold Harold, what are you working on right now. Any blockers, and what do you expect to happen over the next two weeks.

6
00:00:58.350 --> 00:01:11.130
Harold Davis: Yes, yes, it can be a, yeah. So then what I'm working on currently today and for the rest of today is related to the voting mechanism that we've been trying to suss out for for a while now.

7
00:01:11.580 --> 00:01:26.190
Harold Davis: And I was excited to learn that some new ideas that I had to avoid building an app from scratch. There's also going on in the meta gov slack where they're combining a bunch of different tools to be able to get their desired

8
00:01:27.600 --> 00:01:36.930
Harold Davis: Decision making mechanism sorted out. And one of the things that they're actually looking for is something that I was hoping to get done.

9
00:01:37.650 --> 00:01:49.980
Harold Davis: With this voting mechanism, which is, you know, attaching stacks off for identity and storage for any you know voting mechanism or decision making mechanism options that we have for the community and testing options.

10
00:01:50.910 --> 00:01:51.960
Harold Davis: And so yeah, some

11
00:01:52.710 --> 00:01:55.380
Harold Davis: I can show a little bit more on that later have added

12
00:01:55.440 --> 00:02:06.840
Harold Davis: You know, things like source credit and looming over to the different tools that that we can use to to get done some, some of the original ideas that Jude had for time triggers in forums and

13
00:02:08.430 --> 00:02:14.160
Harold Davis: Things like this that I think could be important, even in the testing phases. So, yes, sir.

14
00:02:14.550 --> 00:02:16.920
Harold Davis: I don't see any particular blockers for that.

15
00:02:18.060 --> 00:02:25.740
Harold Davis: And over the next two weeks. I hope to be able to get some of this testing actually started in done feedback from the community.

16
00:02:27.630 --> 00:02:35.880
Harold Davis: And as, as also the things as folks know I've been very involved with the indigenous Council and the two or one phone efforts.

17
00:02:36.600 --> 00:02:56.640
Harold Davis: Specifically for steam and education as it relates to this community, you know, attaching web three infrastructure to education efforts in Indigenous modes of production through you know the bleeding edge of digital fabrication efforts.

18
00:02:56.670 --> 00:02:58.050
Harold Davis: Material development efforts.

19
00:02:59.310 --> 00:03:01.590
Harold Davis: And in the same digital fabrication round.

20
00:03:02.970 --> 00:03:11.880
Harold Davis: So yeah, we're excited about potential web three data models that can show you know some systems design for bottom up.

21
00:03:14.010 --> 00:03:30.750
Harold Davis: Means to, you know, an ethical data ecosystem future tested with three that we can focus on through things like collections building in this in this community to help start a conversation between folks and data and

22
00:03:31.830 --> 00:03:50.430
Harold Davis: You know folks in development and folks on the ground in terms of, you know, what's what's possible for, you know, an ethical web three. So I think this this data ecosystem as opposed to when we have now will be important to start accessing out and building

23
00:03:50.430 --> 00:03:53.460
Harold Davis: Out through collections having that conversation.

24
00:03:54.090 --> 00:03:57.000
Harold Davis: In a good in a good way. So some of the blockers that I see.

25
00:03:57.060 --> 00:04:02.250
Harold Davis: For that actually recently dance brought to my attention that app changes and fully SPECT out. I know that's

26
00:04:02.400 --> 00:04:17.970
Harold Davis: Important for a lot of the infrastructure ideas we had there. What will happen in the next two weeks is hopefully another meeting with English and some more folks very some folks. There's a Daniel word from MIT who will be important for some of our prototyping.

27
00:04:17.970 --> 00:04:20.580
Harold Davis: Efforts with this thing education.

28
00:04:20.670 --> 00:04:22.530
Harold Davis: Effort because it also involves

29
00:04:23.550 --> 00:04:24.630
Harold Davis: Indigenous modes.

30
00:04:24.630 --> 00:04:26.910
Harold Davis: For moon protection space.

31
00:04:26.910 --> 00:04:30.000
Dan Trevino: Protection and and Midwifery protection.

32
00:04:30.090 --> 00:04:30.540
Harold Davis: And so

33
00:04:30.570 --> 00:04:31.020
Harold Davis: We

34
00:04:31.260 --> 00:04:33.930
Harold Davis: Hope that a comparative dialogue with the

35
00:04:35.310 --> 00:04:41.100
Harold Davis: Council can give us some rapid prototyping ideas that

36
00:04:41.130 --> 00:04:43.080
Harold Davis: We also hope to document in a very unique.

37
00:04:43.080 --> 00:04:44.100
Harold Davis: Way but

38
00:04:44.580 --> 00:04:46.950
Harold Davis: Also some context from the UN through

39
00:04:46.950 --> 00:04:47.460
Colonel

40
00:04:48.630 --> 00:04:54.930
Harold Davis: Are coming through line in regards to that as well. Mentioning this collections ideas and we're excited about that as

41
00:04:54.930 --> 00:04:55.560
Dan Trevino: Well, so

42
00:04:55.890 --> 00:04:59.340
Harold Davis: Yeah, yeah. So I mentioned blockers that I see there

43
00:04:59.340 --> 00:05:00.840
Harold Davis: And that's what I see happening next two

44
00:05:00.840 --> 00:05:02.220
Harold Davis: Weeks, but in there.

45
00:05:02.310 --> 00:05:02.970
Dan Trevino: Thank you. Thank you.

46
00:05:07.410 --> 00:05:07.890
Jenny: Jason

47
00:05:10.680 --> 00:05:13.140
Jason Schrader: Alright. So mine is short and sweet my

48
00:05:13.170 --> 00:05:14.640
Jason Schrader: Work for the next two

49
00:05:14.640 --> 00:05:16.440
Jason Schrader: Weeks and what I'm working on right now.

50
00:05:16.470 --> 00:05:17.520
Dan Trevino: Is finishing up just

51
00:05:17.520 --> 00:05:18.540
Dan Trevino: My milestones from my

52
00:05:18.540 --> 00:05:20.340
Jason Schrader: Grant, which is based around the GitHub.

53
00:05:20.340 --> 00:05:22.650
Jason Schrader: Cleanup and no

54
00:05:22.710 --> 00:05:23.850
Dan Trevino: No real blockers at this

55
00:05:23.850 --> 00:05:24.900
Jason Schrader: Time. I'll be working with

56
00:05:24.900 --> 00:05:26.160
Jason Schrader: Jenny to download some

57
00:05:26.160 --> 00:05:27.480
Jason Schrader: Of the videos from all our

58
00:05:27.480 --> 00:05:29.100
Dan Trevino: Different recordings in the past.

59
00:05:29.490 --> 00:05:31.290
Jason Schrader: And I'm just starting to catch up things like the call.

60
00:05:31.290 --> 00:05:33.120
Dan Trevino: Tables and some of the resources that

61
00:05:33.120 --> 00:05:37.200
Jason Schrader: We had put together. So we can start making that a regular thing again. So

62
00:05:37.410 --> 00:05:38.100
That's it for me.

63
00:05:40.380 --> 00:05:41.130
Jenny: Thanks, Jason.

64
00:05:41.340 --> 00:05:42.360
Jenny: Sean anything

65
00:05:42.450 --> 00:05:43.020
Jenny: Like to share

66
00:05:46.050 --> 00:05:47.070
Sean Gonzalez: Well, it's just a

67
00:05:47.460 --> 00:05:50.850
Sean Gonzalez: leftover from the meeting this morning, right where we were talking about

68
00:05:50.850 --> 00:05:52.800
Sean Gonzalez: The community board seat and

69
00:05:54.360 --> 00:05:54.960
Sean Gonzalez: Brittany.

70
00:05:56.460 --> 00:05:59.490
Sean Gonzalez: Made it clear that they were more interested

71
00:05:59.550 --> 00:06:03.630
Sean Gonzalez: In engaging with the community then in a single individual that had

72
00:06:04.680 --> 00:06:06.390
Sean Gonzalez: This specific set of skills that were

73
00:06:06.390 --> 00:06:06.990
Outlined

74
00:06:08.490 --> 00:06:09.090
And so

75
00:06:10.320 --> 00:06:12.420
Sean Gonzalez: I was interested in

76
00:06:13.050 --> 00:06:13.740
Sean Gonzalez: Potentially

77
00:06:14.700 --> 00:06:18.150
Sean Gonzalez: Going down this path myself possibly becoming a board member

78
00:06:18.750 --> 00:06:19.620
Sean Gonzalez: And I'm

79
00:06:21.060 --> 00:06:22.680
Sean Gonzalez: Looking into how

80
00:06:24.180 --> 00:06:31.350
Sean Gonzalez: How we might accomplish that I could put in a proposal for what the board member would do.

81
00:06:33.000 --> 00:06:35.220
Sean Gonzalez: You know, depending on how detailed

82
00:06:35.640 --> 00:06:36.600
Sean Gonzalez: Everybody wants it.

83
00:06:37.590 --> 00:06:40.110
Sean Gonzalez: That could take more or less time. So maybe

84
00:06:41.070 --> 00:06:42.360
Sean Gonzalez: Grant is necessary, depending

85
00:06:42.360 --> 00:06:43.380
Sean Gonzalez: On the questions, but

86
00:06:44.580 --> 00:06:45.840
Sean Gonzalez: I was going to start without that

87
00:06:46.140 --> 00:06:46.620
And

88
00:06:48.090 --> 00:06:48.780
Sean Gonzalez: You know, so

89
00:06:48.960 --> 00:06:51.060
Sean Gonzalez: The basic premise, though.

90
00:06:51.150 --> 00:06:51.780
Sean Gonzalez: Is that

91
00:06:52.230 --> 00:06:54.030
Sean Gonzalez: The type of work that I've started with

92
00:06:54.120 --> 00:06:56.880
Sean Gonzalez: Harold would be continued on a broader

93
00:06:56.880 --> 00:06:57.450
Dan Trevino: Scale.

94
00:06:57.870 --> 00:06:58.890
Sean Gonzalez: Looking for

95
00:06:59.850 --> 00:07:01.920
Sean Gonzalez: People who are trying to engage

96
00:07:01.920 --> 00:07:02.730
Sean Gonzalez: With community.

97
00:07:02.970 --> 00:07:05.100
Sean Gonzalez: Find people with different expertise find

98
00:07:05.100 --> 00:07:06.660
Sean Gonzalez: People who want to contribute.

99
00:07:08.130 --> 00:07:08.640
Sean Gonzalez: And

100
00:07:09.780 --> 00:07:10.410
Sean Gonzalez: Taking

101
00:07:11.700 --> 00:07:14.940
Sean Gonzalez: What the Lord is trying to accomplish, where the organization is trying to

102
00:07:14.940 --> 00:07:16.230
Dan Trevino: Accomplish and engaging

103
00:07:16.500 --> 00:07:18.030
Sean Gonzalez: The community on those things. And in the

104
00:07:18.030 --> 00:07:24.990
Sean Gonzalez: Process. You know, you might have a regular meeting that becomes standard there might be bylaws that need to be

105
00:07:24.990 --> 00:07:28.830
Sean Gonzalez: Changed that could that would be done by the board seat there might be

106
00:07:30.150 --> 00:07:31.980
Sean Gonzalez: You know, governance and

107
00:07:32.520 --> 00:07:38.010
Sean Gonzalez: Consensus algorithms that we come up with, we may end up coding, something that becomes a tool that allows us to

108
00:07:38.040 --> 00:07:38.550
Sean Gonzalez: Gauge

109
00:07:39.450 --> 00:07:40.560
Sean Gonzalez: All these things.

110
00:07:40.650 --> 00:07:41.910
Sean Gonzalez: I believe are part

111
00:07:41.940 --> 00:07:43.350
Sean Gonzalez: Of the initial board.

112
00:07:43.410 --> 00:07:44.430
Sean Gonzalez: Member to

113
00:07:44.460 --> 00:07:46.950
Sean Gonzalez: Define over time and then

114
00:07:47.010 --> 00:07:49.650
Sean Gonzalez: As other people come along with specific expertise and

115
00:07:49.650 --> 00:07:52.980
Sean Gonzalez: Skills relative to, you know, whatever the the

116
00:07:53.340 --> 00:07:56.370
Sean Gonzalez: The board and the community need at that time.

117
00:07:57.210 --> 00:07:59.430
Sean Gonzalez: They would hopefully have a

118
00:08:00.000 --> 00:08:00.810
Dan Trevino: You know, nice.

119
00:08:00.990 --> 00:08:02.460
Sean Gonzalez: Paved cleared.

120
00:08:02.970 --> 00:08:04.560
Sean Gonzalez: Road out in front of them.

121
00:08:04.950 --> 00:08:08.280
Sean Gonzalez: Where they can apply their skills and not have to start in the middle.

122
00:08:08.820 --> 00:08:09.660
Sean Gonzalez: Of a forest.

123
00:08:10.350 --> 00:08:12.180
Sean Gonzalez: With no infrastructure and

124
00:08:13.200 --> 00:08:14.370
Sean Gonzalez: That's basically the direction

125
00:08:14.370 --> 00:08:15.630
Sean Gonzalez: I'm thinking right now. Any

126
00:08:15.660 --> 00:08:17.160
Sean Gonzalez: Any thoughts. Does that seem

127
00:08:17.250 --> 00:08:18.630
Sean Gonzalez: Reasonable to

128
00:08:18.720 --> 00:08:20.520
Sean Gonzalez: Other people know

129
00:08:21.780 --> 00:08:22.590
Sean Gonzalez: Someone who

130
00:08:22.710 --> 00:08:23.940
Sean Gonzalez: is interested in this seat.

131
00:08:25.680 --> 00:08:26.580
Sean Gonzalez: Thoughts about

132
00:08:28.230 --> 00:08:29.580
Sean Gonzalez: How we might accomplish this.

133
00:08:30.600 --> 00:08:32.220
Sean Gonzalez: Because the next board meeting.

134
00:08:32.250 --> 00:08:43.980
Is on February 5

135
00:08:45.870 --> 00:08:51.420
Jenny: I see Brittany on the call. Brittany three color they want to add to what john mentioned

136
00:08:54.870 --> 00:08:59.520
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yeah, I think if we talked a little bit of an ecosystem car today but

137
00:09:00.960 --> 00:09:01.500
Brittany (Stacks.org): Yeah, just

138
00:09:02.250 --> 00:09:02.640
Brittany (Stacks.org): I think

139
00:09:02.670 --> 00:09:03.990
Brittany (Stacks.org): Sean summarize it well.

140
00:09:04.350 --> 00:09:13.860
Brittany (Stacks.org): Basically this community board seats. So having community representation at the board level, which doesn't mean it has to be a single person.

141
00:09:14.400 --> 00:09:24.090
Brittany (Stacks.org): It can be different, you know, a handful of people who who show up and kind of go and represent the Community interests and conversations, making then

142
00:09:24.630 --> 00:09:26.100
Brittany (Stacks.org): New Document and bring things back to

143
00:09:26.100 --> 00:09:27.690
Brittany (Stacks.org): The community. I think like that.

144
00:09:29.610 --> 00:09:39.060
Brittany (Stacks.org): totally on board to have that start art, like I said, our next 40 as he mentioned is February 5 which is coming up soon. So even if it's just like

145
00:09:40.350 --> 00:09:50.160
Brittany (Stacks.org): Still work in progress, but we want to send someone as an observer and kind of test this process out and see what we need and very much on board with that and the board is open to that. So I think it's

146
00:09:51.240 --> 00:09:58.710
Brittany (Stacks.org): Like a real opportunity. But then, yeah, just like how does that, how do we determine who that person is, and how they get selected or

147
00:09:58.770 --> 00:10:04.050
Brittany (Stacks.org): Who the multiple people are, how they represent the Community interest. I think those are all open questions that I would love

148
00:10:05.010 --> 00:10:17.010
Brittany (Stacks.org): For the community to to weigh in on as China, sort of said, and I know we have an open issue with these exact sort of like parameters in it. So sometimes I don't. I want to be more hands off in

149
00:10:17.010 --> 00:10:18.450
Brittany (Stacks.org): That but basically saying like

150
00:10:18.510 --> 00:10:27.570
Brittany (Stacks.org): There is a green light. Let's, let's see how we can kind of experiment and and make this a really great experience for the community for the board for getting what we want.

151
00:10:30.510 --> 00:10:37.530
Sean Gonzalez: Our fire alarm is going off, but it sounds like they doing a test right now. I hope it's not annoying to everyone.

152
00:10:38.850 --> 00:10:44.790
Sean Gonzalez: But, uh, I think the next step is to have a proposal ready for the board on February 5

153
00:10:48.210 --> 00:11:03.780
Jenny: I would also add since this person or this group of people will be represent the community. I am curious to see how this person or group of people would go about figuring out the most pressing issues.

154
00:11:04.080 --> 00:11:16.050
Jenny: For community members. So I would assume that's in the proposal, but is this someone who is very present on discord very present on telegram, who has sort of been on the present.

155
00:11:16.440 --> 00:11:22.140
Jenny: A way of being with community that they are really tapped into what's going on or

156
00:11:22.860 --> 00:11:32.850
Jenny: Is this person going to be as you mentioned, Sean more focused on figuring out the tools that are needed to make decisions and that are needed to help surface issues and

157
00:11:33.360 --> 00:11:43.440
Jenny: Sometimes I like I'm very much. In support of having a community representative at the board level I sometimes worry about like

158
00:11:45.870 --> 00:11:49.740
Jenny: A solution in search of a problem, right. So you have a representative who's there.

159
00:11:50.040 --> 00:11:51.240
Jenny: To amplify

160
00:11:51.270 --> 00:11:54.150
Jenny: The voices of community members and to

161
00:11:54.510 --> 00:11:58.410
Jenny: Address issues that may not be getting priority for community members but

162
00:12:00.900 --> 00:12:01.110
Jenny: I

163
00:12:01.530 --> 00:12:09.510
Jenny: See you have that person who's there. But do they have issues to actually lobby for and do they know what those issues are, if they're there.

164
00:12:09.900 --> 00:12:10.380
Dan Trevino: Does that

165
00:12:10.800 --> 00:12:11.760
Does that make sense.

166
00:12:15.240 --> 00:12:16.350
Sean Gonzalez: Fire alarm went off.

167
00:12:17.850 --> 00:12:20.130
Sean Gonzalez: Is done. Yes, it makes sense.

168
00:12:21.600 --> 00:12:23.460
Sean Gonzalez: There, you mentioned having

169
00:12:23.490 --> 00:12:25.020
Dan Trevino: Solutions looking for a problem.

170
00:12:26.040 --> 00:12:28.830
Sean Gonzalez: I think that once it gets started.

171
00:12:29.550 --> 00:12:30.720
Sean Gonzalez: It's more or less a

172
00:12:30.720 --> 00:12:33.390
Sean Gonzalez: Clean slate, meaning that once a proposal is accepted.

173
00:12:33.780 --> 00:12:36.480
Sean Gonzalez: Then you can start a new there's things that have been said about different

174
00:12:36.480 --> 00:12:38.250
Dan Trevino: Tools and different approaches and

175
00:12:39.120 --> 00:12:40.560
Sean Gonzalez: You know those were all part of the

176
00:12:40.560 --> 00:12:42.450
Sean Gonzalez: Conversation to find out what

177
00:12:42.810 --> 00:12:43.920
Sean Gonzalez: The community board seat.

178
00:12:44.430 --> 00:12:46.080
Sean Gonzalez: Was what was expected of it.

179
00:12:46.110 --> 00:12:47.340
Dan Trevino: What it would be first.

180
00:12:47.670 --> 00:12:49.770
Sean Gonzalez: And so then you just start a new at that point.

181
00:12:51.780 --> 00:12:52.740
Sean Gonzalez: In terms of the

182
00:12:54.210 --> 00:13:05.670
Sean Gonzalez: Are you creating internal tools or are you engaging. I think that there's has to be some internal tool process so that way you don't leave the next person without institutional knowledge and

183
00:13:05.670 --> 00:13:07.500
Sean Gonzalez: Processes to to engage

184
00:13:09.180 --> 00:13:11.550
Sean Gonzalez: thereby reducing the amount of effort it takes

185
00:13:11.550 --> 00:13:11.850
Sean Gonzalez: For

186
00:13:11.880 --> 00:13:12.960
Sean Gonzalez: A new person to

187
00:13:12.990 --> 00:13:14.220
Dan Trevino: Get started with the community.

188
00:13:15.330 --> 00:13:16.170
Sean Gonzalez: But that said,

189
00:13:16.800 --> 00:13:19.050
Sean Gonzalez: Part of doing that properly is having

190
00:13:19.170 --> 00:13:21.090
Sean Gonzalez: An actual issue that you

191
00:13:21.180 --> 00:13:23.850
Sean Gonzalez: Need to communicate or resolve or

192
00:13:23.940 --> 00:13:28.230
Sean Gonzalez: You know, whatever the case may be. And so it's going to be a hybrid between the two.

193
00:13:29.130 --> 00:13:30.180
Sean Gonzalez: This is the way I see it.

194
00:13:32.010 --> 00:13:35.520
Jenny: Thank you. Okay. And unless they're

195
00:13:36.960 --> 00:13:49.770
Jenny: Like pressing questions on this we can probably revisit it at the end during discussion and before but stand ups anyone. Okay, great. Dan your next on my list. You have a stand up to share related to governance.

196
00:13:51.540 --> 00:13:51.960
Governance

197
00:13:53.070 --> 00:13:53.670
Dan Trevino: No I do not.

198
00:13:56.160 --> 00:13:56.520
Okay.

199
00:13:57.720 --> 00:14:00.540
Jenny: So Juliet is next. Julia, would you like to share anything

200
00:14:12.240 --> 00:14:12.510
Dan Trevino: Oh, I

201
00:14:12.690 --> 00:14:13.890
Jenny: Can't hear you.

202
00:14:21.150 --> 00:14:22.110
Jenny: Plan to dial in.

203
00:14:22.320 --> 00:14:24.150
Jenny: Okay. For now we can

204
00:14:25.170 --> 00:14:32.430
Jenny: Save Juliet for later. I'm going to move down to Tanya Tanya. Do you have any stand up to you'd like to share

205
00:14:35.370 --> 00:14:37.050
Jenny: Okay, dude.

206
00:14:40.380 --> 00:14:42.690
Jude Nelson: No, not right now. All right.

207
00:14:43.200 --> 00:14:43.620
Ryan.

208
00:14:45.300 --> 00:14:48.090
Ryan Arndt: Not specifically governance related. No. Okay.

209
00:14:49.650 --> 00:14:51.150
Jenny: So I won't go

210
00:14:51.240 --> 00:14:51.750
And

211
00:14:53.340 --> 00:14:54.330
Jenny: What are my stand ups.

212
00:14:56.070 --> 00:15:07.860
Jenny: But I've been working on that I have mentioned here on the group is that discord bought so make progress on that has been so because one of the team members that we have is caught up with

213
00:15:07.980 --> 00:15:20.850
Jenny: A different project. So Jonathan, the developer that I'm working with Jonathan, I have decided to move forward with deploying the bot to the server, but not before we contact the community members who've

214
00:15:20.910 --> 00:15:23.010
Jenny: Been involved in testing and

215
00:15:23.490 --> 00:15:32.430
Jenny: So, but to give you an idea what that will look like. And once this auto moderation bot is to plot a deployed to the stack server.

216
00:15:33.390 --> 00:15:46.290
Jenny: There will be a mechanism in place where community members can all in a community moderator role. So it's a level one community moderator will and because we don't want to be well because we can't pull any

217
00:15:46.980 --> 00:15:58.410
Jenny: Very specific information about user activity on discord and the way that the process will work for confirming those new moderators, is that the existing moderators, so presumably

218
00:15:59.340 --> 00:16:08.280
Jenny: The community members who've been testing the bot and other core community members who are interested in in gaining the privileges of a moderator in our server would approve.

219
00:16:09.480 --> 00:16:13.020
Jenny: People who who other people who want to be moderators. That might sound confusing.

220
00:16:13.260 --> 00:16:13.620
But

221
00:16:14.760 --> 00:16:15.690
Jenny: In this first phase.

222
00:16:15.900 --> 00:16:18.060
Jenny: Of testing the bot on our actual server.

223
00:16:18.660 --> 00:16:25.800
Jenny: Basically, people will be able to enroll in these moderator roles automatically. So the idea is that

224
00:16:26.070 --> 00:16:31.020
Jenny: The community can share moderation privileges and someone like me or Mitchell.

225
00:16:31.230 --> 00:16:32.400
Jenny: Or no longer have

226
00:16:32.460 --> 00:16:34.410
Jenny: Like super admin or owner

227
00:16:34.590 --> 00:16:38.400
Jenny: Ship access to the server. We're going to transfer ownership to

228
00:16:38.430 --> 00:16:40.920
Jenny: A dummy account that belongs to the stacks community.

229
00:16:41.280 --> 00:16:41.820
Dan Trevino: And

230
00:16:42.750 --> 00:16:49.170
Jenny: The keys to that account would only be available in situations of emergency, but even

231
00:16:49.500 --> 00:16:52.890
Jenny: People like the PVC team would have ownership access

232
00:16:52.890 --> 00:16:54.360
Jenny: To to the server so that

233
00:16:54.690 --> 00:16:57.090
Jenny: Is part of decentralizing ownership and

234
00:16:57.090 --> 00:17:10.920
Jenny: Distributing privileges. So that's what you can expect for the bot. I think that is meant to happen in the next week or so and and the exciting thing about the body is that once it's deployed and we

235
00:17:11.190 --> 00:17:16.710
Jenny: Work through the different moderator privileges and bowls Jonathan will actually be able to work.

236
00:17:16.740 --> 00:17:18.990
Jenny: On some more sophisticated features.

237
00:17:19.050 --> 00:17:20.580
Jenny: Like reputation.

238
00:17:20.760 --> 00:17:28.830
Jenny: Tracking. That sounds more serious than it is. But it's really similar to what else showed us two weeks ago with source credit, but based on your

239
00:17:29.040 --> 00:17:32.130
Jenny: Discord activity or GitHub activity be able to

240
00:17:33.270 --> 00:17:34.620
Jenny: Prove that

241
00:17:34.710 --> 00:17:46.950
Jenny: You've, you've been in the server for a certain amount of time you have a certain amount of experience with the community, which is really helpful when we are trying to figure out who in the community or

242
00:17:47.760 --> 00:17:50.850
Jenny: Who has certain weights to their, their boats on community.

243
00:17:50.850 --> 00:17:56.310
Jenny: Decisions. So that's what you can expect this this quarter. What you can expect in the next

244
00:17:56.370 --> 00:18:01.410
Jenny: week or two is being that bought operational on the stack, sir.

245
00:18:01.650 --> 00:18:01.950
Jenny: And

246
00:18:02.670 --> 00:18:04.620
Jenny: As there are no lockers

247
00:18:05.070 --> 00:18:07.770
Jenny: There were, we were running into issues.

248
00:18:07.770 --> 00:18:08.940
Jenny: With just

249
00:18:10.890 --> 00:18:18.540
Jenny: Developing the criteria for being a moderator having moderator role, but that's just going to get done by Monday or Tuesday, and that'll be shared with

250
00:18:18.600 --> 00:18:21.240
Jenny: All of you who are helping us with texting.

251
00:18:21.600 --> 00:18:23.730
Jenny: So, see ya know that's it now.

252
00:18:28.680 --> 00:18:29.490
Can I jump in.

253
00:18:31.050 --> 00:18:32.520
Jenny: Hello. Yes. Hi.

254
00:18:32.940 --> 00:18:35.010
Jenny: Welcome. Hi. Thank you.

255
00:18:35.670 --> 00:18:37.200
Juliet Oberding: So I've been working on.

256
00:18:37.200 --> 00:18:37.680
The

257
00:18:39.270 --> 00:18:46.170
Dan Trevino: Groundwork the code of conduct and in the next two weeks, I expect that will see the

258
00:18:49.440 --> 00:18:59.820
Dan Trevino: RFC request for comment on the Code of Conduct over the past month I've been going through the different codes of conduct, looking at the one that was originally put up by the

259
00:19:01.440 --> 00:19:17.490
Dan Trevino: The development team and and also looking at a number of them from Python to Django to many, many to take the look at one thing I think dovetails with what you raised a moment ago with the moderation is

260
00:19:18.390 --> 00:19:30.240
Dan Trevino: A code for of enforcement. And I see that the new covenant version has a code of enforcement within the code of conduct. So I find that really interesting

261
00:19:30.660 --> 00:19:40.020
Dan Trevino: Initially I thought there might need to be a separate code of conduct which is similar to what Mozilla does, but I think we can put it into our

262
00:19:41.220 --> 00:19:47.670
Dan Trevino: Code of Conduct. So a separate code of enforcement like Mozilla and but I think we can put it in our code of conduct and

263
00:19:48.690 --> 00:20:02.850
Dan Trevino: And then share that with the community through the RFC process and then have people comment on it and then we can use what Harold is doing to vote on it eventually. So

264
00:20:03.510 --> 00:20:04.620
Juliet Oberding: That's so

265
00:20:04.680 --> 00:20:07.440
Dan Trevino: Next two weeks. The RFC and the

266
00:20:08.970 --> 00:20:14.700
Dan Trevino: Code of Conduct to be put up for the community to take a look at and comment on

267
00:20:17.370 --> 00:20:20.550
Jenny: Cool. Awesome. Thanks, really, really looking forward to seeing that

268
00:20:22.140 --> 00:20:25.410
Jenny: Um, does anyone have any questions on a stand up. So we're here.

269
00:20:29.610 --> 00:20:29.850
Now,

270
00:20:31.500 --> 00:20:39.870
Jenny: Right, so we can move on to the foundation updates. So click on this as well. Brittany has everything you want to share from the foundation side.

271
00:20:44.040 --> 00:20:48.150
Brittany (Stacks.org): Main thing you just, it was very good. Some cosmologist we've upgraded

272
00:20:48.510 --> 00:20:49.680
Brittany (Stacks.org): Our grants.

273
00:20:49.710 --> 00:20:52.740
Brittany (Stacks.org): Proposal process from GitHub and now it's

274
00:20:53.100 --> 00:21:00.390
Brittany (Stacks.org): hosted on our own server through a interface called grant.io so if you haven't checked it out yet.

275
00:21:01.050 --> 00:21:02.100
Brittany (Stacks.org): You can. It's just that.

276
00:21:02.400 --> 00:21:08.160
Brittany (Stacks.org): stocks.org slash grants. So trying to make it easier for people to get like notifications when things are

277
00:21:09.780 --> 00:21:15.060
Brittany (Stacks.org): Going on and like being able to comment. So we'd love to have people continue to add comments.

278
00:21:16.170 --> 00:21:29.670
Brittany (Stacks.org): Also thanks to the folks who who have already applied for grants and as we're kind of transitioning over this new interface, you may, you know, happier grant migrated. So hopefully not a bad thing, but we hope to get more just, more feedback on grants.

279
00:21:30.690 --> 00:21:33.060
Brittany (Stacks.org): And hopefully this tool will help make it easier to do that.

280
00:21:35.100 --> 00:21:50.280
Brittany (Stacks.org): But yeah that's that's the main thing in my front. I mean, obviously the launch last week was a big thing. I know many of you are in attendance to those events so happy to give you know answer any questions about the launch stuff later in the call to be like

281
00:21:52.560 --> 00:22:00.900
Jenny: A sprint me and these were mentioned, I don't know if we want to discuss anything more Sean about that the board seats.

282
00:22:02.070 --> 00:22:04.740
Jenny: Or board nominations, if there's been any progress there.

283
00:22:08.040 --> 00:22:13.860
Sean Gonzalez: There has been discussions and I'm happy to talk about them, but I have something prepared.

284
00:22:14.760 --> 00:22:15.000
Okay.

285
00:22:16.740 --> 00:22:21.510
Jenny: Alright, so unless anyone has questions on that we can pursue that asynchronously.

286
00:22:25.020 --> 00:22:26.520
Jenny: We can go into action items.

287
00:22:29.850 --> 00:22:30.090
Jenny: So,

288
00:22:31.320 --> 00:22:34.380
Jason Schrader: I'll jump in on that one, because we don't have a ton of action items.

289
00:22:34.770 --> 00:22:37.530
Jenny: So there's gonna say, yeah.

290
00:22:37.650 --> 00:22:44.490
Jason Schrader: Yeah, there's, there's just a three there there are part of my grant backlog. So nothing that we need to get into today, but of course you know anyone's

291
00:22:44.970 --> 00:22:59.040
Jason Schrader: Able to view them able to comment on and and leave any feedback, but we don't have to spend any time going through those. I do want people to know if you'll just hit the new issue button. I think we highlighted this last week to respond to show everybody. Oh.

292
00:22:59.310 --> 00:22:59.970
That's right.

293
00:23:01.080 --> 00:23:02.340
Jason Schrader: That's right. And I'm brave.

294
00:23:03.390 --> 00:23:12.360
Jason Schrader: That's all right. So basically, there's issue templates. Now, so if you do want to add like I normally do the agendas. But if anybody wants to add an agenda.

295
00:23:12.750 --> 00:23:24.570
Jason Schrader: For the next meeting an action item discussion item foundation item, very straightforward as the label for you descriptions in there and you're good to go. So that's, that's all I wanted to share and in relation to that.

296
00:23:26.850 --> 00:23:27.780
Well, thanks, Jason.

297
00:23:28.890 --> 00:23:30.150
Jenny: Until going to

298
00:23:30.390 --> 00:23:31.830
Discussion items as phone

299
00:23:36.720 --> 00:23:37.080
Jenny: Alright.

300
00:23:37.530 --> 00:23:43.710
Jenny: We normally go through these one by one. I since we do that sort of every meeting. I wonder if

301
00:23:45.600 --> 00:23:47.130
Jenny: We can just go through these. And if they're

302
00:23:48.030 --> 00:23:55.440
Jenny: The person in charge of them wants to talk about them and we can, or if there's nothing to add, we can move on. Does that sound okay

303
00:23:59.040 --> 00:24:03.840
Jason Schrader: I'm okay with that. And I would also say that anything that's labeled with the grant that backlog.

304
00:24:04.230 --> 00:24:13.800
Jason Schrader: We can kind of gloss over unless somebody wants some more detail or again anybody's welcome to open these comment. These review these, but we don't have to spend time going through it on the call today.

305
00:24:16.650 --> 00:24:20.220
Jenny: And Carolyn, do you want to say anything else about this.

306
00:24:21.630 --> 00:24:37.410
Harold Davis: This also just a brief things that are there, and there's a link there to recording of the zoom that happened on the 12th. That includes Ronnie glass from yeah from the gender justice research group. We're excited to start working

307
00:24:39.570 --> 00:24:50.460
Harold Davis: On this prototype that below. I tried to highlight some work streams that I that I think are possible and asking for feedback I could add this to action items today.

308
00:24:51.930 --> 00:25:07.830
Harold Davis: To add to that list there so folks know to to look here in terms of any feedback you know potential blockers outside of the app change that they see just any is any feedback in terms of, you know, technical

309
00:25:09.300 --> 00:25:17.100
Harold Davis: You know, things that are possible. Not possible. So yeah, I'll be updating that as well.

310
00:25:18.180 --> 00:25:23.460
Harold Davis: To include the next scheduling for the next meeting for this small prototype.

311
00:25:24.540 --> 00:25:28.380
Harold Davis: That has mentioned, hopefully can give our ecosystem. Some models for both

312
00:25:29.580 --> 00:25:33.420
Harold Davis: You know, ethical data, the future you know ecosystem building in that regard.

313
00:25:34.530 --> 00:25:40.350
Harold Davis: But also important R amp D for governance that we've mentioned before in this space.

314
00:25:41.610 --> 00:25:46.380
Harold Davis: You know, a blockchain based systems. There's been folks like Primavera be Phillippi

315
00:25:48.090 --> 00:25:55.380
Harold Davis: Folks who is including the medical project who and very inspirational to some of the foundational research of this working group in terms of

316
00:25:56.190 --> 00:26:15.120
Harold Davis: You know, looking outside of conventional means for for governments, because as we all know, they're not there aren't too many conventional means that don't indiscipline the same pitfalls or basis of attraction. So this is important. We feel for long term.

317
00:26:15.780 --> 00:26:17.700
Harold Davis: Sustainability of blockchain based systems.

318
00:26:18.270 --> 00:26:20.550
Harold Davis: So yeah, we're excited that

319
00:26:20.760 --> 00:26:26.730
Harold Davis: This small prototype really embodies a lot of you know what we ought to be doing for a while.

320
00:26:28.380 --> 00:26:31.140
Harold Davis: Yeah, I'll stop there for that. Thank you.

321
00:26:32.310 --> 00:26:34.710
Jenny: Um, yeah. Quick question. So when

322
00:26:35.310 --> 00:26:38.460
Jenny: When you do come out with their prototype. What's the most important thing

323
00:26:38.880 --> 00:26:46.500
Jenny: That we can help with. Is it is it promoting sharing, making sure that it's getting enough feedback or something else.

324
00:26:47.970 --> 00:26:48.330
Harold Davis: Yeah.

325
00:26:49.350 --> 00:27:02.880
Harold Davis: The timeline is, like I said, there's still some no infrastructure lockers, you know that I'm sure as the miracles worked at this launcher know they'll continue to be done in terms of, you know, at changing things like this that are very exciting. So

326
00:27:03.930 --> 00:27:12.570
Harold Davis: As soon as it does come come into fruition even even some of the documentation, we hope to do for even before it's getting built

327
00:27:12.930 --> 00:27:21.120
Harold Davis: Will be very helpful to have promotion or support in any kind of way. Of course, of course, and on down the line, you know, mentioned before.

328
00:27:22.050 --> 00:27:28.530
Harold Davis: Any technical help you know there's gonna be a lot of token engineering that can be very unique and

329
00:27:28.920 --> 00:27:44.400
Harold Davis: As it relates to this matrilineal indigenous council and some of the things that we're trying to try to get done in terms of bottom up systems design. And I think it's gonna be very interesting. Some of the engineering approaches that that that end up getting concluded on so

330
00:27:44.730 --> 00:27:45.930
Dan Trevino: That that's such important for

331
00:27:45.930 --> 00:27:47.700
Harold Davis: Us to so Thank you kindly for asking.

332
00:27:54.480 --> 00:27:55.020
Jenny: I had

333
00:27:55.440 --> 00:27:56.280
Jenny: I put this one out.

334
00:27:56.520 --> 00:27:58.080
Jenny: That this was just an issue.

335
00:27:58.470 --> 00:27:59.310
To

336
00:28:00.720 --> 00:28:05.220
Jenny: Collect project management updates on on Harold and Juliet's

337
00:28:05.280 --> 00:28:06.450
Jenny: work streams so

338
00:28:07.020 --> 00:28:10.890
Jenny: It's still the case that we can follow all your progress there by Harold and Juliet.

339
00:28:13.980 --> 00:28:16.860
Dan Trevino: For, as far as I for both of us. I think we have

340
00:28:16.890 --> 00:28:20.820
Jenny: Paints there and updates that we both have been putting in

341
00:28:22.440 --> 00:28:30.540
Dan Trevino: Harold is putting in everything, weekly, and I have some new updates that I just put in there. And so I'm interested in people taking a look at

342
00:28:30.990 --> 00:28:39.780
Dan Trevino: My dates and I'm Harold, I'm sure, as he can speak for himself, but I'm sure that he's interested in having people take a look at his updates as well and

343
00:28:40.290 --> 00:28:52.350
Dan Trevino: Comment. I know that with the code of conduct, I would really like people to take a look at what's going on. I'm doing a work in the open approach. So there'll be changes every single day with

344
00:28:53.190 --> 00:29:07.860
Dan Trevino: or every other day, maybe with the documents that are there that you'll see what I'm working on. And you'll see what I'm reviewing and you'll be able to see the different some of the different code of conduct.

345
00:29:11.220 --> 00:29:17.220
That are used by other communities, whether it's open source communities like Python or Django.

346
00:29:17.670 --> 00:29:31.890
Or the covenant. So you. This is the what you're looking at right now is the request for comment in a draft stage right now, so I am currently working and adding to that each day. If you go to the

347
00:29:33.240 --> 00:29:38.220
Towards the bottom you'll see that there is some various

348
00:29:40.890 --> 00:29:49.320
Code of Conduct from other communities that are within the request for comment at some point I'll probably

349
00:29:50.760 --> 00:29:58.170
Juliet Oberding: Just use the link so you can review them when we put this up on GitHub. And I'll have it more friendly so that people can

350
00:29:58.680 --> 00:30:16.200
Juliet Oberding: Look at the links and be able to review each of them as well as there will be one code of conduct that is a draft for our community, which is based on will be based on many of these that I've reviewed, including the one original one that was put up on

351
00:30:16.200 --> 00:30:19.230
April 17 by the developers.

352
00:30:20.400 --> 00:30:22.830
From block stack. Now here. Oh.

353
00:30:25.920 --> 00:30:29.940
Jenny: Great, thanks. Really, it looks like you got a lot of content to work with here.

354
00:30:34.200 --> 00:30:38.160
Jenny: And okay and this is so we can skip over the backlog.

355
00:30:39.180 --> 00:30:40.320
Jenny: Items right Jason

356
00:30:41.700 --> 00:30:44.520
Harold Davis: I do want to mention something I'm from that.

357
00:30:46.050 --> 00:30:50.580
Harold Davis: It's at the top I moved it to the top. So we have to scroll all the way down.

358
00:30:52.770 --> 00:30:58.830
Harold Davis: And then it's just a few updates that I was mentioning earlier about, you know, as you see here is doing.

359
00:31:00.000 --> 00:31:07.530
Harold Davis: Pretty much showing showing you guys what I've been working on thinking about through the weeks and this is what I've currently

360
00:31:08.580 --> 00:31:16.890
Harold Davis: On and a lot of its inspired by the work that's being done in meta Gov. As I said, is being done independently of some of the same work that I was doing

361
00:31:17.190 --> 00:31:31.410
Harold Davis: And some of the things that I was hoping was possible, or just thinking about as possible. They've already started to test out which is even adding the very polished Vimeo if some of you guys are familiar with it, where it has this very modular decision making and discussion.

362
00:31:32.940 --> 00:31:41.370
Harold Davis: UI on I think would be very, very powerful for for our for our use cases here where we're trying to leverage source credit and

363
00:31:41.910 --> 00:31:47.340
Harold Davis: And policy kid and what it looks like is that you can do some pretty nice things with policy period where

364
00:31:48.330 --> 00:31:55.800
Harold Davis: You know, I see them testing that you know you can test whether or not you can ask policy get to check whether or not a certain user has

365
00:31:56.370 --> 00:32:06.180
Harold Davis: A certain amount of credit before, you know, pushing through a certain decision or notifying the user to push through a certain decision or action of any kind in platforms like discord.

366
00:32:06.600 --> 00:32:15.810
Harold Davis: And so I was thinking along similar lines, but wondering if we could be a little bit more specific about, you know, if you do. Imagine decision making process where

367
00:32:16.140 --> 00:32:24.210
Harold Davis: You might want to just make sure like was kind of referenced earlier about how much time has been in discord. This is being like a little bit more specific to okay

368
00:32:24.900 --> 00:32:34.380
Harold Davis: These particular post are important for this particular decision. And has there been credit that you know from this user that is flowing through this particular post

369
00:32:34.830 --> 00:32:43.500
Harold Davis: So I'm interested I asking questions in Slack a meta gov about this and I hope we will be working on this for the rest of today in terms of

370
00:32:44.190 --> 00:32:59.400
Harold Davis: Putting together a demo for you guys that puts together all these different tools and hopefully you know I was, I was hoping that we could very quickly get some snacks off usage through this course, because the source credit plugin has the discourse.

371
00:33:00.750 --> 00:33:15.960
Harold Davis: Plugin but um, because that's not active I still want to try to have the testing. I have the stacks off via the live chat from free gear that's put together with the matrix client. So yeah, those are some of the updates.

372
00:33:17.010 --> 00:33:22.260
Harold Davis: About what's going on. And as Julia said I'd love some comments feedback on approaches strategies.

373
00:33:23.760 --> 00:33:27.720
Harold Davis: Yeah. So yeah, I'll add it to the actions list as well. Thank you can

374
00:33:29.160 --> 00:33:37.500
Jenny: Tell they're really looking forward to the prototype. I wonder if and only if this isn't a lot more to ask, but if

375
00:33:37.500 --> 00:33:38.280
Dan Trevino: There. If you could

376
00:33:39.330 --> 00:33:41.070
Jenny: Draw out like a flow chart of

377
00:33:41.100 --> 00:33:43.350
Jenny: What decision making would look like with all these

378
00:33:43.380 --> 00:33:46.470
Jenny: Tools, only if it's like straightforward and simple so

379
00:33:46.500 --> 00:33:52.620
Jenny: I'd be curious to see what the flow of decision making is like using these different platforms.

380
00:33:53.280 --> 00:33:59.430
Harold Davis: No, of course, I think it's a beautiful idea. I see a lot of the flow charts and meta go so inspiration.

381
00:34:00.630 --> 00:34:12.900
Sean Gonzalez: I would love to help with that process or I look forward to seeing it. If it doesn't help is needed, and that's it's really interesting to see how human practices are reduced algorithms.

382
00:34:13.560 --> 00:34:14.040
Sean Gonzalez: To think about

383
00:34:17.580 --> 00:34:24.870
Jenny: Just the number of tools you ended up you think Harold like I it kind of illustrates how complicated good decision making is

384
00:34:25.800 --> 00:34:35.400
Harold Davis: Yeah, it was, um, I was excited to see that medical was thinking along the same lines that I wasn't being compensated in my thinking. So yeah, there's a link there to similar to a Google Doc.

385
00:34:36.030 --> 00:34:40.740
Harold Davis: Where God has put together a lot of work. I think there's some flow charts. There, too, that you might be interested in. So

386
00:34:57.600 --> 00:35:04.170
Jenny: I was muted. I was saying this is, this wasn't exactly the simple flow chart I was an imaginary quantity available.

387
00:35:04.980 --> 00:35:05.370
Okay.

388
00:35:10.200 --> 00:35:12.090
Jenny: Alright okay so

389
00:35:13.710 --> 00:35:14.760
Jenny: Do you want to say anything about

390
00:35:15.330 --> 00:35:19.020
Jenny: Our collaboration with metal. I mean, it looks like you're incorporating them into our work, but this was

391
00:35:19.080 --> 00:35:20.370
Jenny: A different issue proposed.

392
00:35:20.370 --> 00:35:22.560
Jenny: By lane, who isn't here.

393
00:35:22.620 --> 00:35:23.670
Dan Trevino: And I don't know, Harold. If

394
00:35:23.670 --> 00:35:23.970
Dan Trevino: You

395
00:35:24.060 --> 00:35:25.080
Dan Trevino: Feel comfortable speaking

396
00:35:25.440 --> 00:35:25.680
Jenny: Yeah.

397
00:35:25.740 --> 00:35:26.460
The blame for this.

398
00:35:29.670 --> 00:35:35.250
Harold Davis: Maybe not on behalf of lane. But yeah, I've seen Lane in the in the stacks, or in the slack.

399
00:35:36.810 --> 00:35:37.740
Harold Davis: Meta gov and

400
00:35:38.100 --> 00:35:39.150
Dan Trevino: Seen him in some going

401
00:35:39.150 --> 00:35:40.350
Dan Trevino: To go to seminars and so

402
00:35:40.590 --> 00:35:50.430
Harold Davis: I know that he's still very much focused on on on you know what meta gov is doing. As you can see they're, they're very much on similar paths is us. And yeah, I think that that link.

403
00:35:50.430 --> 00:35:50.730
Dan Trevino: There.

404
00:35:50.850 --> 00:35:59.760
Harold Davis: Is a pretty good summary of some of the things that they're doing but also encourage folks to I think there's some other medical links on that same update and to

405
00:36:00.030 --> 00:36:01.110
Harold Davis: Look through what's going on in

406
00:36:01.110 --> 00:36:06.210
Harold Davis: Their seminars and yeah, feel free to to get access to a slack.

407
00:36:06.660 --> 00:36:08.880
Dan Trevino: And look for yourself. So, yeah.

408
00:36:09.030 --> 00:36:10.560
Dan Trevino: I think that sums it up.

409
00:36:11.940 --> 00:36:12.150
Dan Trevino: I

410
00:36:12.570 --> 00:36:17.610
Jenny: Think Harold and this, and this was proposed by a community member that

411
00:36:18.210 --> 00:36:18.690
Dan Trevino: We've heard

412
00:36:19.080 --> 00:36:20.130
Jenny: From in a while so

413
00:36:20.430 --> 00:36:23.580
Jenny: I don't think that we necessarily to go for this, but just so everyone

414
00:36:23.940 --> 00:36:24.660
Jenny: Is aware

415
00:36:26.130 --> 00:36:27.690
Dan Trevino: This was proposed.

416
00:36:28.170 --> 00:36:28.980
Jenny: Back in July.

417
00:36:30.510 --> 00:36:32.940
Jenny: If anyone is inspired and feels like they can address

418
00:36:32.940 --> 00:36:33.360
Jenny: This

419
00:36:33.480 --> 00:36:34.860
Dan Trevino: This is open for

420
00:36:35.640 --> 00:36:36.420
Dan Trevino: More feedback.

421
00:36:39.060 --> 00:36:41.160
Dan Trevino: And backlog.

422
00:36:41.850 --> 00:36:47.490
Jenny: town hall meeting or general what the call. So we had our first one today, Ryan, but you want to go over how

423
00:36:47.520 --> 00:36:48.030
Dan Trevino: That went

424
00:36:48.390 --> 00:36:52.110
Ryan Arndt: This morning, sure. Yeah, so that was just included at the end of the

425
00:36:52.620 --> 00:37:05.010
Ryan Arndt: vascular system calls. So we have them so they're every two weeks. And so, next two weeks from now will be the evangelists group and then to turn around governance and so just trying to see how that works.

426
00:37:06.120 --> 00:37:08.070
Ryan Arndt: Jason gave a an update on

427
00:37:09.120 --> 00:37:12.600
Ryan Arndt: All the things that are on here is doing, which is always a lot

428
00:37:12.690 --> 00:37:14.700
Ryan Arndt: And so it was nice thousand new

429
00:37:14.700 --> 00:37:18.510
Ryan Arndt: People here that and I think people. I couldn't see any of these phases, but I'm sure that amounts were

430
00:37:18.510 --> 00:37:19.650
Dan Trevino: Dropped open because there's

431
00:37:19.650 --> 00:37:21.120
Ryan Arndt: A lot going on in this committee.

432
00:37:22.560 --> 00:37:25.620
Ryan Arndt: And yeah, so that I think quite well. And then, Sean.

433
00:37:26.670 --> 00:37:31.050
Ryan Arndt: Was able to talk with me board seat to Brittany live in front of

434
00:37:31.080 --> 00:37:32.520
Ryan Arndt: Some more people are sort of governance.

435
00:37:32.730 --> 00:37:39.720
Ryan Arndt: Area, too. So it's nice to have. I think more people who aren't involved in governance directly be able to hear that kind of stuff.

436
00:37:41.040 --> 00:37:45.930
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, so I think it went well and her own P should see what everybody else level intended

437
00:37:49.560 --> 00:37:55.500
Jason Schrader: Yeah, just a quick note on that to everything that I spoke to in the meeting this morning. I actually dropped

438
00:37:55.920 --> 00:38:01.200
Jason Schrader: The same notes in our issue today just below all the agenda items for reference.

439
00:38:01.620 --> 00:38:12.030
Jason Schrader: I did my best to capture everybody stuff from GitHub and I do want to say thank you everyone for using that to do some excellent project management was easy for me to walk back and see what everyone was up to.

440
00:38:12.540 --> 00:38:26.370
Jason Schrader: And I hope I got the most up to date information for everyone, but I like the idea of that continuing so I'll make a note that's going to be every other one of those calls and will continue that. I think the more exposure we get the matter on the public side as well.

441
00:38:31.470 --> 00:38:33.750
Jenny: Well, thanks everybody. Great to have our first one

442
00:38:35.370 --> 00:38:38.490
Jenny: What was the attendance like Ryan I wasn't able to this morning.

443
00:38:39.000 --> 00:38:52.050
Ryan Arndt: Of total which was down from last week pre made so because last week. And the last couple weeks coming into mean it was like 27 and 2630 around that come out. So, today was only 12 and

444
00:38:52.080 --> 00:38:52.500
Ryan Arndt: I'm not sure.

445
00:38:52.560 --> 00:38:59.460
Ryan Arndt: People were tired of stuff for if it was, you know, just different first time governance was included on the

446
00:38:59.610 --> 00:39:01.740
Ryan Arndt: Invite that are some people might find that it's

447
00:39:01.860 --> 00:39:03.420
Dan Trevino: Complicated and I want to hear.

448
00:39:03.420 --> 00:39:03.630
Ryan Arndt: That

449
00:39:03.690 --> 00:39:04.260
I don't know.

450
00:39:05.820 --> 00:39:15.030
Ryan Arndt: Yeah, so we'll see what the next ones like and see if that's continued way that people want to do things. I'm very I'm going to be pushing from our attendance on that, of course,

451
00:39:17.580 --> 00:39:20.850
Jenny: That's the first one so I'm sure I can only go in there.

452
00:39:22.380 --> 00:39:32.100
Jenny: And the fireside chat series. And this is another idea that's proposed a while ago. I don't know if anyone has any updated ideas on on what we can do here.

453
00:39:34.770 --> 00:39:37.380
Jenny: So the original idea was just add to have

454
00:39:37.920 --> 00:39:42.090
Jenny: special guests or invite special guests on to either these Working Group calls or

455
00:39:42.150 --> 00:39:44.160
Jenny: Something a little more public facing

456
00:39:45.180 --> 00:39:47.550
Jenny: To talk about governance in general or governance.

457
00:39:48.090 --> 00:39:48.900
On stacks.

458
00:39:55.440 --> 00:39:56.550
Jason Schrader: To me, I feel like we'll

459
00:39:56.550 --> 00:40:01.320
Jason Schrader: Get started getting into things like this once we started having a regular cadence with the town hall.

460
00:40:02.220 --> 00:40:09.300
Jason Schrader: But we did leave the issue open, just so people can suggest if there's anybody else that they would invite into talk. I mean, we had a few names mentioned and

461
00:40:09.690 --> 00:40:18.990
Jason Schrader: Also, the Council that Harold's working with and just trying to find ways to bring other experts in to learn from their experiences and kind of see where we can go next.

462
00:40:19.440 --> 00:40:30.810
Jason Schrader: So that's, that's kind of the background of this one, and why it's still open. But definitely, if anybody has any feedback or wants to take the lead on that I'd imagine it would only be a good thing to just to continue that work.

463
00:40:34.620 --> 00:40:34.980
Dan Trevino: Great.

464
00:40:35.340 --> 00:40:36.900
Jenny: Thanks. Jason and

465
00:40:36.930 --> 00:40:40.740
Jenny: Okay. So that does it for aside from these backlog issues that does it.

466
00:40:40.740 --> 00:40:43.200
Jenny: For discussion items and

467
00:40:43.800 --> 00:40:44.580
Jenny: Were there any

468
00:40:44.670 --> 00:40:45.630
Jenny: Discussion items that

469
00:40:45.840 --> 00:40:50.910
Jenny: Warrant reflected in these issues that we'd like to talk about in our last 12 minutes

470
00:40:52.890 --> 00:40:54.090
Ryan Arndt: Was just thinking that last one.

471
00:40:54.510 --> 00:41:05.370
Ryan Arndt: I know when I share information about the last meeting I wrote it with Ron English there. There's a lot of people who, when I shared it with them. They're very interesting regressions work. So maybe you could be a person

472
00:41:06.480 --> 00:41:18.210
Ryan Arndt: Going forward is like to try out this idea and because it gets more profitable, he's doing and how it applies to the stacks ecosystem and things like that, if you'd be open to it. Something came to mind.

473
00:41:19.800 --> 00:41:27.420
Jenny: Well well here on with the link. So if Ronnie clean glass. Next, we're cool. And maybe talk to us more

474
00:41:27.810 --> 00:41:31.560
Harold Davis: Yeah, he's a he's a very nice guy, so far, so I'm sure I'm sure you'd be interested

475
00:41:31.560 --> 00:41:35.040
Harold Davis: In even in some getting to know exactly, you know,

476
00:41:36.060 --> 00:41:44.730
Harold Davis: What exactly what exactly plan to leverage and blockchain based systems for that you know aligns with his longtime work. And yeah, I was also thinking of

477
00:41:45.150 --> 00:41:58.470
Harold Davis: Of the Council, as Jason mentioned all this is all the possibilities and which is a matter of scheduling. So yeah, I'll get on it that this was already on my mind for other things going on in colonel. So yeah, of course.

478
00:42:00.420 --> 00:42:04.140
Jenny: Oh yeah, speaking of Colonel Thank you everyone for being flexible.

479
00:42:04.350 --> 00:42:08.910
Jenny: Because the Herald and Dan doing Colonel really appreciate it.

480
00:42:10.410 --> 00:42:15.030
Jenny: I know this time works for it seems to work for a lot of us, but I think the reason that we

481
00:42:15.180 --> 00:42:17.070
Jenny: Had tried to do an earlier time was to

482
00:42:17.490 --> 00:42:30.870
Jenny: Accommodate other time zone. So we can obviously move back to the the 12 o'clock eastern meetings after colonel and done and or you don't talk about other times I might work for us, but thank you. Nicholas

483
00:42:34.260 --> 00:42:38.940
Jenny: And right okay so last 10 minutes but other discussion topics that we like to cover

484
00:42:45.300 --> 00:42:57.210
Jason Schrader: If you scroll down a little bit. I did add a little bit just to the bottom of the agenda. So this week. Just so everyone knows there's two other little changes that were kind of going well. One change and one event. So the middle one.

485
00:42:58.650 --> 00:43:06.780
Jason Schrader: So the big one that was my update this morning. And that was just a little bit of what we talked about in the meeting this morning. But if you go up one comment above that one.

486
00:43:07.530 --> 00:43:16.140
Jason Schrader: The two things I wanted to cover is the sips. So the actual sits from stacks blockchain are officially being moved and will live in the stack scope repo.

487
00:43:16.800 --> 00:43:22.710
Jason Schrader: There in both places right now because there's a lot of things that still linked to the actual stacks blockchain location.

488
00:43:23.160 --> 00:43:36.420
Jason Schrader: But right before main net launch, dude. We created a new repo. We moved everything over. And then as we start to develop new Community sets or any other changes. They'll also live in that stacks of repo.

489
00:43:36.960 --> 00:43:43.770
Jason Schrader: And you can see that in the issues and pull requests, which is currently where a NFP and FT standard are being built.

490
00:43:44.730 --> 00:43:49.680
Jason Schrader: So just that quick little update for anything SIP related is actually going to come through stacks go now.

491
00:43:50.430 --> 00:44:01.080
Jason Schrader: And on the other side. Several of the Community miners have gotten together to discuss kind of how things are going and there might be a possible sips mission in the future. So I just wanted to link that document.

492
00:44:01.830 --> 00:44:07.830
Jason Schrader: So, you know, some people in our group and kind of give that some exposure as well. And I didn't know you know they're looking at

493
00:44:09.360 --> 00:44:19.290
Jason Schrader: As we're moving along as as a community of miners. How can we affect our own open source governance, you know, will that be tied into the governance that we do.

494
00:44:19.650 --> 00:44:28.410
Jason Schrader: Will it be its own independent thing. I think a lot of those questions are up in the air right now. So I just wanted to put it on the radar so that people had access to it.

495
00:44:31.080 --> 00:44:32.370
Jenny: Thanks, Jason.

496
00:44:36.180 --> 00:44:41.430
Jenny: Yeah. Did I think the first community minor meeting was a couple days ago.

497
00:44:42.240 --> 00:44:45.660
Jason Schrader: Yeah, this, this was the meeting notes from from that meeting, actually.

498
00:44:45.690 --> 00:44:51.630
Jenny: Okay and this is open. Is there a regular cadence for these meetings so far I

499
00:44:51.690 --> 00:44:59.010
Jason Schrader: Don't know as of yet. No, this was just kind of call the last minute and NACo was helping us organize it and put together the invite.

500
00:44:59.640 --> 00:45:05.910
Jason Schrader: For eager was in attendance attendance and he put together the shared doc. So things are a little spread out right now.

501
00:45:06.300 --> 00:45:15.840
Jason Schrader: But I anticipate that there might there might be some sort of regular cadence coming down the road for now. I think the best place to watch would be either the mining channel for updates.

502
00:45:16.230 --> 00:45:23.730
Jason Schrader: Or if it makes sense, you know, depending on what they're talking about governance related or anything else. There might be some overlap with what we're doing.

503
00:45:24.120 --> 00:45:32.130
Jason Schrader: Mainly, just put it there so we can start thinking about it as a, as a community, and see if there's any resources that we can give them specifically on the governance side.

504
00:45:34.050 --> 00:45:34.170
I

505
00:45:35.340 --> 00:45:36.300
Jenny: Think this is great.

506
00:45:38.340 --> 00:45:39.660
Jenny: Anything else from

507
00:45:40.140 --> 00:45:42.300
Jenny: This section Jason that you wanted to go over

508
00:45:42.840 --> 00:45:43.560
Jenny: Because I

509
00:45:44.010 --> 00:45:54.030
Jason Schrader: Know, so that that's all for me. And like I said, the notes below that were from the stacks ecosystem call this morning, where I gave an update and aside from that, I have nothing else to add,

510
00:45:56.640 --> 00:46:02.040
Jenny: Well, and I actually, I do have one thing to add. So, and

511
00:46:02.490 --> 00:46:07.560
Jenny: I think that some folks have been wondering about the the state of some community.

512
00:46:08.700 --> 00:46:10.350
Jenny: Rams like the Evangelist program and

513
00:46:10.410 --> 00:46:12.060
Dan Trevino: The chapters program and

514
00:46:12.210 --> 00:46:21.240
Jenny: And their future. I guess with with me net now having launched. So we are working on on those and

515
00:46:23.280 --> 00:46:27.000
Jenny: How can I put this so the the Evangelist program is still going. Obviously, we have

516
00:46:27.150 --> 00:46:27.960
Jenny: Great evangelist.

517
00:46:27.990 --> 00:46:28.890
Jenny: I think that

518
00:46:29.460 --> 00:46:31.650
Jenny: There is appetite to sort of revive it

519
00:46:32.010 --> 00:46:32.730
And

520
00:46:34.080 --> 00:46:47.640
Jenny: Cater it to the active evangelists, so I am I am personally doing some work on that. And we'll share plans for that. Pretty soon. And then there's also the issue the stacks chapters program.

521
00:46:48.660 --> 00:46:59.970
Jenny: I mentioned these on a governance call because I think that community engagement and activity will very much fall under the auspices of the foundation and

522
00:47:00.600 --> 00:47:15.810
Jenny: Obviously, as the most active contributors to the stack ecosystem community members will have, whether they're evangelist or members of the chapter will have a huge say in the decisions that we make. So, and some things that have been on my mind or, you know, with the

523
00:47:16.710 --> 00:47:18.600
Jenny: With the development of stacks chapters for

524
00:47:18.600 --> 00:47:20.910
Jenny: Example, if they're going to get funded.

525
00:47:21.240 --> 00:47:23.820
Jenny: Would they get funded through the grants program. And if they do,

526
00:47:25.110 --> 00:47:41.880
Jenny: Would it make sense for them to have a seat on some sort of governance board because they would effectively be representing large regions around the world. So these are lots of open questions that have emerged from trying to plan for these programs and

527
00:47:43.440 --> 00:47:51.330
Jenny: I loved them help thinking through those from the governance group and see. I just wanted to put that on everyone's radar to but

528
00:47:51.390 --> 00:47:52.290
Jenny: Expect some

529
00:47:52.710 --> 00:48:00.090
Jenny: Like proposals and notes on on both of these programs in discord or on the forum or on GitHub soon.

530
00:48:06.720 --> 00:48:10.500
Jenny: Any other questions or topics.

531
00:48:21.510 --> 00:48:27.330
Jenny: Hi Jedi angel yet. Alright, so finally I have my voice heard.

532
00:48:28.650 --> 00:48:31.950
Jenny: I have a problem with my microphone. Sorry about that. Okay.

533
00:48:33.060 --> 00:48:41.670
Juliet Oberding: So about the you were talking about the the community chapters, or the stacks chapters and

534
00:48:41.670 --> 00:48:59.490
Dan Trevino: The evangelists and I thought that that was really exciting to talk about the international impact because certainly when you're looking at governance, we need to look at the the different communities have different cultural standards.

535
00:49:00.300 --> 00:49:11.730
Jenny: It's, I think it's important to bring all that together and looking at governance and as well as evangelism and stacks chapters of

536
00:49:12.270 --> 00:49:14.820
Juliet Oberding: I don't know. I'm just plus one for me. That's about it.

537
00:49:15.480 --> 00:49:21.000
Jenny: Yeah. Oh, no, no, thank you for saying that because it is it is exciting to think about. It's also

538
00:49:21.600 --> 00:49:21.990
Jenny: Like

539
00:49:22.290 --> 00:49:24.870
Jenny: It's also intimidating to think about the potential that that

540
00:49:24.870 --> 00:49:25.740
Jenny: Has on

541
00:49:26.730 --> 00:49:28.230
Jenny: All the potential impact it has on

542
00:49:28.260 --> 00:49:39.840
Jenny: Governance because, you know, at the moment, we as a community deal with seemingly minor issues if like translations of documentation right even that is like a huge mountain for us to climb, but what

543
00:49:40.350 --> 00:49:56.910
Jenny: You know what, having what documentation means for the community is is access right if we don't, we don't have a process for working with a group on translating documentation, then you cut off access to that region for for building on our block chain and you know that could also

544
00:49:57.930 --> 00:50:03.210
Jenny: Hinder tons of progress that we could be happening in certain regions, and this is a conversation, dude.

545
00:50:03.780 --> 00:50:15.540
Jenny: It's exciting to talk about, like, lowering barriers to entry. When it comes to access to our block chain and those are those are some pretty meaty and interesting thing governance discussions to have

546
00:50:16.680 --> 00:50:29.610
Jenny: And I, I assume that will will be knee deep in that pretty soon now that we have minors on the network. And, you know, technically, the blockchain is is decentralized so

547
00:50:31.200 --> 00:50:44.670
Jenny: I like my my thinking is that with the chapters program. I wouldn't want it to be an ornamental thing of like, you know, this chapters this like this chapter functions solely to evangelize tax in the region.

548
00:50:45.480 --> 00:51:02.220
Jenny: I think these chapters should have a voice and some influence and some say over how are governing the ecosystem at large. Yep. Those are just some cursory thoughts. None of them are more than half baked at this at this stage. So it really helps to have everyone here talk through them.

549
00:51:03.930 --> 00:51:12.180
Ryan Arndt: And I could speak to, when I worked with another developer nonprofit data board of directors that was about 10 people and a lot of people were part of

550
00:51:12.240 --> 00:51:21.210
Ryan Arndt: What they call them. Well, what's working groups here they call special interest groups. And so people who were on the board. There's representatives from special interest groups as well as for the chapters.

551
00:51:21.780 --> 00:51:26.670
Ryan Arndt: So they're on the board level. So it's still a bit different in governance that that's how they organized

552
00:51:28.890 --> 00:51:38.190
Jenny: Yeah, there are so many models and writing he introduced me to certain groups and that could be really helpful in this regard, so I will be tapping on you soon.

553
00:51:40.890 --> 00:51:45.030
Jenny: All right. Okay. So we are one minute away from n time.

554
00:51:46.230 --> 00:51:48.240
Jenny: speak now or forever will not forever.

555
00:51:48.300 --> 00:51:49.590
Jenny: hold your peace until the next

556
00:51:49.950 --> 00:51:51.810
Jenny: Meeting or until you get back on discord.

557
00:51:55.980 --> 00:52:06.120
Harold Davis: Thank you to everybody for these last few weeks now everybody's been involved in different ways. I've learned a lot over the last few weeks, just from watching a lot of what you guys do.

558
00:52:06.630 --> 00:52:12.570
Harold Davis: I know a lot of its buying the scenes to is not always visible. So it's like economy for for being able to pull pull this off.

559
00:52:15.960 --> 00:52:17.250
Sean Gonzalez: Next one conversations

560
00:52:18.570 --> 00:52:22.860
Jenny: Definitely. Oh, okay. The last thing I'll mention is, some of you may have seen

561
00:52:22.890 --> 00:52:24.660
Jenny: Your faces on a coin.

562
00:52:26.220 --> 00:52:37.110
Jenny: Floating around somewhere. These are supposed to be turned into lefties, and I think that they can be turned into entities, at some point, but this was one way that we wanted to recognize the work that community members are doing

563
00:52:38.340 --> 00:52:46.110
Jenny: Obviously don't want these coins to be out in public. If you prefer not to have your image shared around, but it is a nice thing to have.

564
00:52:46.620 --> 00:52:59.430
Jenny: You know, for yourself. So, a lot of them have been made for those of you on this call and some of them are still in process. So just expect one of those soon as a big thank you for just being awesome

565
00:53:02.700 --> 00:53:04.710
Jenny: You guys should be hair holds two

566
00:53:06.660 --> 00:53:09.150
Jenny: Robots High School picture. Okay. Anyway, have a

567
00:53:09.180 --> 00:53:10.740
Jenny: Great conversation. Thanks everyone.

568
00:53:11.160 --> 00:53:13.140
Jenny: And talk to you in two weeks.

569
00:53:17.790 --> 00:53:19.050
Jason Schrader: Alright thanks everybody.

570
00:53:19.620 --> 00:53:20.190
Take care.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
